The Selection Committee shall, based on the evaluation procedure and criteria, select and recommend a panel of
names in order of merit to the State Government for appointment as Social Worker Members of the JJBs or
Chairpersons or Members of the CWCs. The panel will be valid for one year from the selection date. The
appointment date of the Social Worker Members of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) or the Chairperson/Members
of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) shall be deemed effective from the date of their joining at the district
level, subject to the availability of a vacancy in the respective district.

5. Amember selected by the Selection Committee should not:

a.

d.

be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow the person to give necessary time and attention to the
work of the CWC as per the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile
Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

be associated with any Child Care Institution, directly or indirectly, during his tenure as a chairperson or a member
of the CWC or have any other conflict of interest.

hold any office in any political party during his tenure.

be insolvent.

6. The terms and conditions of the engagement as Social Members of JJBs or Chairpersons/Members of CWCs would be
as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care
& Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

7. Important instructions to the candidates:

a.

Interested people who are eligible to apply for the selection to the said positions of JJB/CWC would need to apply
online in the prescribed Application Form on the JAP-IT Recruitment Portal (recruitment.jharkhand.gov.in) of
Government of Jharkhand.
Candidates can apply for the district of their choice against the available vacant positions. The name of the
District (Annexure-A) to which the application is made must be written in the Column-1 of the Application Form.
An eligible candidate can apply for more than one position in a district that is Social Worker Member of Juvenile
Justice Board and Chairperson/Member of Child Welfare Committee depending upon the availability of the vacant
positions in that district. If applying for more than one position, the candidate should give preference as mentioned
in Column-2 of the Application Form.
The candidate must clearly indicate the distance (in kilometers) between the present residence of the candidate
and the headquarters of the district to which she/he is applying in Column-3 of the Application Form.
The candidate must provide all the information as required to be filled in Column-4 of the Application Form.
As per the provisions of the Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017, there are two
sets of eligibility educational qualifications and work experience. Accordingly, for the purpose of clarity and
objectivity, the two categories of educational qualifications and work experience have been mentioned as follows:
Category - I: Degree from any recognized University with a minimum of 07 years of experience of working with
children in the field of Education/ Health/ Protection/ Welfare Activities

ii. Category - Il: Practicing Professional with a degree in Child Psychology/ Psychiatry/ Social Work/ Sociology/

Human Development, in the field of Law or a retired judicial officer.

The candidate must clearly mention the category to which she/he belongs to by selecting either Category-| or
Category-ll.
The candidates falling in Category - | shall fill the details of their Educational Qualification and Work Experience in
format given as in Annexure- |.A of the Application Form. The candidates falling in Category - !I would fill the details
of Educational Qualification and Work Experience in format given as in Annexure- |.B of the Application Form.
The Column-6 of the Application Form requires the candidates to fill up Personal Data Form, attached as Annexure-
Il. The candidates are required to give complete information about themselves. The wrong information would make
the candidature of the candidate liable to be cancelled.
The candidates are required to give an undertaking as per format attached as Annexure- Ill to the Application Form.
The said undertaking is to be provided on a non-judicial stamp paper of at least Rs. 100.00 (Rupees One Hundred).
The scanned copy of the undertaking on non-judicial stamp paper must be uploaded appropriately with the

Application Form.
/ Page 3 of 10
