Annexure-IIl

ss UNDERTAKING
(To be submitted on non-judicial stamp paper of at least Rs. 100.00 (Rs. One hundred)
. (Name of the candidate)........, $/D/W/o.... . hereby declare that the information

furnished in this application by me is true to the best of my knowledge and that | have not suppressed any
relevant information/incident which contravenes the conditions set out for selection to the position in JJB or
CWC in the State of Jharkhand.

Further, | declare that:

1. Ihave not been involved in any criminal offence or acts of moral turpitude or other conviction or punishment
by a Court of Law or in violation of human rights or child rights or indulged or associated or come to any
adverse notice for any violation of the conditions specified for selection to the positions in JJB or CWC.

2. Ihave never been removed or dismissed from service of the Central Government or State Government or
an undertaking or corporation owned or controlled by the Central or State Government.

3. Ihave never indulged in any sort of child abuse or employment of child labor or any other violation of human
rights or child rights or any immoral act and have never associated or come to any adverse notice for any
violation of the conditions specified for selection to the positions in JJB or CWC.

4. | will neither be associated with any Child Care Institution (CCI), directly or indirectly, during my tenure as
a Social Worker Member of the JJB or Chairperson/Member of CWC nor will have any other conflict of
interest.In case of my selection to the JJB or CWC, | shall submit a certificate withdrawing from the CCI
with which Iwas associated, if the case be at my selection to the JJB or CWC, at the time of reporting to the
CWC/JJB. | will also not hold any office in any political party during my tenure.

5. I shall ensure all round growth and development of child placed before the CWC/JJB by being available at
all times, as may be required and that | fulfill all the other conditions prescribed for making me eligible for
the selection as Social Worker Member of JJB or Chairperson/Member of CWC. | also declare that | will not
be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow me to give necessary time and attention to the work
of the CWC/JJB as per the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and
Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

I hereby undertake that | will abide by the decision of the Government of Jharkhand regarding the selection to
the position(s) for which I have applied. Further, | will abide by the conditions of Selection/Termination etc., as
laid down in the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care
& Protection of Children) Rules, 2017 and such other decisions as taken by the Government of Jharkhand from
time to time.

| also undertake that in the event of any information, or any document furnished by me is found to be false/
incorrect/ misrepresented, at any point of time, my appointment shall be liable to be cancelled/terminated
without assigning any reasons thereof.

This undertaking is in reference to my application for the selection to the vacant positions of JJB and/or CWC in

the district ...... (Name of district in the State of Jharkhand.
Place: Signature:
Date: Name of the Candidate:

Page 10 of 10

