professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or social work or sociology or human development
or in the field of law OR a retired judicial officer.

iii, The candidate does not have any past record of violation of human rights or child rights.

iv. The candidate has not been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude, and such conviction has not
been reversed or has not been granted full pardon in respect of such offence.

v. The candidate has not been removed or dismissed from service of the Central Government or a State
Government or an undertaking or corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or State
Government.

vi. The candidate has never indulged in child abuse or employment of child labour or any other violation of human
rights or immoral act.

vii. The candidate should not be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow the person to give necessary
time and attention to the work of the CWC as per the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act,
2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

4. Structure of Selection process:

a.

Stage 1-Screening of the Application Forms: All the applications received will be screened for the basic eligibility
requirements. The applications which show that the candidates fulfil the basic eligibility requirements would only
be considered for further evaluation by the Selection Committee. The applications wherein candidates do not fulfil
the basic eligibility requirements shall be screened out and not considered for any further evaluation.

Stage 2-Evaluation by Selection Committee: The candidates whose applications have been shortlisted to have
fulfilled the basic eligibility requirements shall go through the evaluation by Selection Committee. The evaluation
by Selection Committee would comprise of the following:

i, Personal Interaction: The weightage for the personal interaction would be 50%. The shortlisted candidates
would appear before selection committee for personal interaction, and they would be evaluated on the
basis of their aptitude to the position, attitude, domain knowledge and their understanding on the issues of
Child Rights and Protection.

ii, Educational qualifications: The weightage for educational qualification would be 25%. Based upon the
percentage of marks obtained in the educational qualification defined in the basic eligibility requirements, the
following scores would be given to the candidates:

Percentage of Marks Score
>75% 25
>60-75 20
>45-60 15
upto 45% 10

iii. Work experience: The weightage for work experience would be 25%. Based upon the length of experience in
the relevant fields (experience of working with children in the field of education, health, protection, welfare
activities) or length of professional practice, the following scores would be given to the candidates:

Work experience
Category-| Category-ll
Degree + 07 years of experience Specified Degree + professional practice
Length of Length of
experience in Score professional Score
relevant fields practice
Up to 10 years 15 Up to 03 years 15
Up to 12 years 20 Up to 05 years 20
Up to 15 years 25 Up to 08 years 25)

J be Page 2 of 10

