k. Acandidate may apply for positions in as many districts as he wants. However, the candidate would be required to
fill a separate Application Form for each district. In this case, each Application Form shall be accompanied with an
undertaking as per Annexure- III on a separate non-judicial stamp paper as mentioned under 7,j above.

|. Applications incomplete in any respect shall not be considered for further evaluation and rejected summarily.

8. The candidates who will be called for interview shall bring the duly certified copies of the documents as mentioned
below and submit them at the time of interview:

a. The undertaking as uploaded with the Application Form (in original)
Aadhaar Card

Date of Birth Certificate (Secondary School Certificate)

Educational Qualification Certificates

Supporting documents uploaded with the Application Form as proof of Work Experience

No- objection Certificate from the Employer or the Agency for which he/she is working

NOC from Bar Association/ Council/ DLSA/ SLSA, in case of a practicing advocate.

h. Such other supporting documents relevant and required for consideration by the Selection Committee.

eBmooaos

9. Incase of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection which may be detected any stage even after the issue of
appointment letter, the Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand
reserves the right to modify/withdraw/cancel any communication made to the candidate.

10. Incase of any dispute/ambiguity that may occur in the process of selection, the decision of the Department of Women,
Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand shall be final.

11. No correspondence will be entertained regarding screening of the applications and selection process and the result or
reasons for not being called for interview etc.,

12. The Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand reserves the right to
increase or decrease numbers of posts; or not to fill up any of the vacancies advertised if the circumstances so warrant.

13. No TA/DA for attending the interview is admissible.

14. The JAP-IT Recruitment Portal would automatically close as soon as the last date is over and would not accept any online
application afterwards. So, all the interested candidates are advised to apply as soon as possible, before the closing
date.

15. The last date for receipt of completed Application Forms is 15.10.2026

Sd/-
(Bikrama Ram)
Under Secretary,
Women, Child Development and Social
Security Department, Jharkhand

Page 4 of 10

