Government of Jharkhand
Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security
(Jharkhand State Child Protection Society)

Notification No. -3062 Dated.- 10-09-2026

NOTIFICATION FOR SEEKING APPLICATIONS FOR FILLING THE VACANT POSITIONS OF JUVENILE JUSTICE BOARDS (JJBs)
AND CHILD WELFARE COMMITTEES (CWCs) IN THE STATE OF JHARKHAND

1. Jharkhand State Child Protection Society (JSCPS), Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security,
Government of Jharkhand hereby invites online applications on JAP-IT Recruitment Portal
(recruitment.jharkhand.gov.in) from the eligible candidates to fill up the vacant positions of Social Worker Members in
Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs) and Chairpersons/Members in Child Welfare Committees (CWCs) in the State of Jharkhand.

2. Details of vacant positions:
a. Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs)

b.

ic

No. of vacant positions

Nature of Engagement

Term of Engagement

Sitting Allowance

04

Honorary

3 years

Rs.2000 per sitting

Child Welfare Committees (CWCs)

No. of vacant positions

Nature of Engagement

Term of Engagement

Sitting Allowance

07

Honorary

3 years

Rs.2000 per sitting

District wise details of tentative vacant positions in JJBs and CWCs (as on 31.07.2025) are mentioned in Annexure- A.

3. Basic Eligibility Requirements: [As per Jharkhand JJ Rules 2017: Rule 4 (3), 15 (3), and 88 (5)]
a. Juvenile Justice Board: Social Worker Members

i. The candidate shall not be less than thirty-five years of age and not more than sixty years of age at the time of
appointment

ii. The candidate shall have a degree with at least seven years of experience of working with children in the field
of education, health, protection or welfare activities, or should be a practicing professional with a degree in
child psychology or psychiatry or sociology or in the field of law.

iii. The candidate does not have any past record of violation of human rights or child rights.

iv. The candidate has not been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude, and such conviction has not
been reversed or has not been granted full pardon in respect of such offence.

v. The candidate has not been removed or dismissed from service of the Central Government or a State
Government or an undertaking or corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or State
Government.

vi. The candidate has never indulged in child abuse or employment of child labour or any other violation of human
rights or immoral act.

vii. The candidate should not be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow the person to give necessary
time and attention to the work of the JJB as per the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015,
and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

b. Child Welfare Committee: Chairpersons and Members
i. The candidate shall be above the age of thirty-five years and not more than 60 years of age
ii. The candidate shall have a minimum of seven years of experience of working with children in the field of
education, health, protection, or welfare activities with a degree OR the candidate should be a practicing

Page 1 of 10

Me

