10.

11.

12.

k.

The candidate must provide all the information as required to be filled in Column-4 of the Application Form.

As per the provisions of the Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017, there are two
sets of eligibility educational qualifications and work experience. Accordingly, for the purpose of clarity and
objectivity, the two categories of educational qualifications and work experience have been mentioned as follows:

i. Category - I: Degree from any recognized University with a minimum of 07 years of experience of working with
children in the field of Education/ Health/ Protection/ Welfare Activities

ii, Category - Il: Practicing Professional with a degree in Child Psychology/ Psychiatry/ Social Work/ Sociology/
Human Development, in the field of Law or a retired judicial officer.

The candidate must clearly mention the category to which she/he belongs to by selecting either Category-I or
Category-il.

The candidates falling in Category - | shall fill the details of their Educational Qualification and Work Experience in
format given as in Annexure- |.A of the Application Form. The candidates falling in Category - I! would fill the details
of Educational Qualification and Work Experience in format given as in Annexure- |.B of the Application Form

The Column-6 of the Application Form requires the candidates to fill up Personal Data Form, attached as Annexure-
II. The candidates are required to give complete information about themselves. The wrong information would make
the candidature of the candidate liable to be cancelled.

The candidates are required to give an undertaking as per format attached as Annexure- III to the Application Form.
The said undertaking is to be provided on a non-judicial stamp paper of at least Rs. 100.00 (Rupees One Hundred).
The scanned copy of the undertaking on non-judicial stamp paper must be uploaded appropriately with the
Application Form.

A candidate may apply for positions in as many districts as he wants. However, the candidate would be required to
fill a separate Application Form for each district. In this case, each Application Form shall be accompanied with an
undertaking as per Annexure- Ill on a separate non-judicial stamp paper as mentioned under 7,j above.

Applications incomplete in any respect shall not be considered for further evaluation and rejected summarily.

The candidates who will be called for interview shall bring the duly certified copies of the documents as mentioned
below and submit them at the time of interview:

a.

h.

mmepanos

The undertaking as uploaded with the Application Form (in original)

Aadhaar Card

Date of Birth Certificate (Secondary School Certificate)

Educational Qualification Certificates

Supporting documents uploaded with the Application Form as proof of Work Experience

No- objection Certificate from the Employer or the Agency for which he/she is working

NOC from Bar Association/ Council/ DLSA/ SLSA, in case of a practicing advocate.

Such other supporting documents relevant and required for consideration by the Selection Committee.

In case of any inadvertent mistake in the process of selection which may be detected any stage even after the issue of
appointment letter, the Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand
reserves the right to modify/withdraw/cancel any communication made to the candidate.

In case of any dispute/ambiguity that may occur in the process of selection, the decision of the Department of Women,
Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand shall be final.

No correspondence will be entertained regarding screening of the applications and selection process and the result or
reasons for not being called for interview etc.,

The Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security, Government of Jharkhand reserves the right to
increase or decrease numbers of posts; or not to fill up any of the vacancies advertised if the circumstances so warrant.

ae

Page 3 of 10

