Government of Jharkhand
Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security
(Jharkhand State Child Protection Society)

Notification No. - 2979 Dated.- 01.09.2026

NOTIFICATION FOR SEEKING APPLICATIONS FOR FILLING THE VACANT POSITIONS OF JUVENILE JUSTICE BOARDS (JJBs)

IN THE STATE OF JHARKHAND

Jharkhand State Child Protection Society (JSCPS), Department of Women, Child Development and Social Security,

Government of Jharkhand hereby invites online applications on JAP-IT Recruitment _ Portal
(recruitment.jharkhand.gov.in) from the eligible candidates to fill up the vacant positions of Social Worker Members in
Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs) in the State of Jharkhand.

a.

b.

Details of vacant positions:
Juvenile Justice Boards (JJBs)

No. of vacant positions | Nature of Engagement | Term of Engagement Sitting Allowance
06 Honorary 3 years Rs.2000 per sitting

District wise details of tentative vacant positions in JJBs (as on 22.09.2026) are mentioned in Annexure- A.

Basic Eligibility Requirements: [As per Jharkhand JJ Rules 2017: Rule 4 (3), and 88 (5)]

a. Juvenile Justice Board: Social Worker Members

i. The candidate shall not be less than thirty-five years of age and not more than sixty years of age at the time of
appointment

ii. The candidate shall have a degree with at least seven years of experience of working with children in the field
of education, health, protection or welfare activities, or should be a practicing professional with a degree in
child psychology or psychiatry or sociology or in the field of law.

ili. The candidate does not have any past record of violation of human rights or child rights.

iv. The candidate has not been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude, and such conviction has not
been reversed or has not been granted full pardon in respect of such offence.

v. The candidate has not been removed or dismissed from service of the Central Government or a State
Government or an undertaking or corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or State
Government.

vi. The candidate has never indulged in child abuse or employment of child labour or any other violation of human
rights or immoral act.

vii. The candidate should not be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow the person to give necessary
time and attention to the work of the JJB as per the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015,
and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

4. Structure of Selection process:

a.

Stage 1-Screening of the Application Forms: All the applications received will be screened for the basic eligibility
requirements. The applications which show that the candidates fulfil the basic eligibility requirements would only
be considered for further evaluation by the Selection Committee. The applications wherein candidates do not fulfil

the basic eligibility requirements shall be screened out and not considered for any further evaluation.

Stage 2-Evaluation by Selection Committee: The candidates whose applications have been shortlisted to have
fulfilled the basic eligibility requirements shall go through the evaluation by Selection Committee. The evaluation

by Selection Committee would comprise of the following:

i. Personal Interaction: The weightage for the personal interaction would be 50%. The shortlisted candidates
would appear before selection committee for personal interaction, and they would be evaluated on the
basis of their aptitude to the position, attitude, domain knowledge and their understanding on the issues of

Page 1 of 10

