Child Rights and Protection.

ii. Educational qualifications: The weightage for educational qualification would be 25%. Based upon the
percentage of marks obtained in the educational qualification defined in the basic eligibility requirements, the
following scores would be given to the candidates:

Percentage of Marks Score
>75% 25
260-75 20
>45-60 _ 15
upto 45% 10

iii, Work experience: The weightage for work experience would be 25%. Based upon the length of experience in
the relevant fields (experience of working with children in the field of education, health, protection, welfare
activities) or length of professional practice, the following scores would be given to the candidates:

Work experience
Category-I Category-!l
Degree + 07 years of experience Specified Degree + professional practice
Length of Length of
experience in Score professional Score
relevant fields practice
Up to 10 years 15 Up to 03 years 15
Up to 12 years 20 Up to 05 years 20
Up to 15 years 25 Up to 08 years 25

The Selection Committee shall, based on the evaluation procedure and criteria, select and recommend a panel of
names in order of merit to the State Government for appointment as Social Worker Members of the JJBs . The
panel will be valid for one year from the selection date. The appointment date of the Social Worker Members of
the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) shall be deemed effective from the date of their joining at the district level,
subject to the availability of a vacancy in the respective district.

5. Amember selected by the Selection Committee should not:

a.

iG
d.

be holding such full-time occupation that may not allow the person to give necessary time and attention to the
work of the JJB as per the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile
Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Rules, 2017.

be associated with any Child Care Institution, directly or indirectly, during his tenure as a chairperson or a member
of the CWC or have any other conflict of interest.

hold any office in any political party during his tenure.
be insolvent.

6. The terms and conditions of the engagement as Social Members of JJBs would be as per the provisions of Juvenile
Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Jharkhand Juvenile Justice (Care& Protection of Children) Rules,
2017.

7. Important instructions to the candidates:

a.

Interested people who are eligible to apply for the selection to the said positions of JJB would need to apply
online in the prescribed Application Form on the JAP-IT Recruitment Portal (recruitment.jharkhand.gov.in) of
Government of Jharkhand.

Candidates can apply for the district of their choice against the available vacant positions. The name of the
District (Annexure-A) to which the application is made must be written in the Column-1 of the Application Form.
The candidate must clearly indicate the distance (in kilometers) between the present residence of the candidate
and the headquarters of the district to which she/he is applying in Column-3 of the Application Form.

(We

Page 2 of 10

