                                                         TATA MEMORIAL CENTRE
                         ADVANCED CENTRE FOR TREATMENT, RESEARCH AND EDUCATION IN CANCER (ACTREC)
                         (A Grant-in-Aid Institution of the Department of Atomic Energy, Government of India)
                                                 Phone No : 91-22-68735000, Extn.:6068

 TMC-ACTREC/ADVT/198/2026                                                                     24th September, 2026



Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) - ACTREC, Kharghar - Navi Mumbai, invites applications from Indian Nationals for the
following tenured post (non-permanent) for a duration till 31.07.2027 in the Department of Transfusion Medicine.

                                               SENIOR RESIDENT
      Sr.
      No.               DEPARTMENT                                   ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS
                                                      MD (Immuno-Haematology And Blood Transfusion /
         1.      TRANSFUSION MEDICINE
                                                       Transfusion Medicine Or Equivalent PG Degree

GENERAL CONDITIONS :

1.    AGE LIMIT: 40 YEARS. (Relaxable by 5 years for SC/ST, 3 years for OBC & 10 years for Physically Handicapped).

2.    Age & experience will be reckoned as on 08.10.2026.

3.    Senior Resident in Tata Memorial Centre - ACTREC is considered as Part of P.G. Bond (Those who have
      completed MCh/DM/DNB/MS/MD from Govt. & Municipal Medical Colleges, Maharashtra as per
      GR:MED.1013/NO.101 /EDU 2 dated 07.06.2013).

4.     CONSOLIDATED REMUNERATION/STIPEND :
     Designation               Qualification                Per Month                          Remarks
     SENIOR RESIDENT           MD                           Rs. 1,33, 623/- p.m to Rs.
                                                            1,45,530/- p.m (Subject to
                                                            Experience)

 5. Security/ Caution Deposit :
SENIOR RESIDENT - Rs.1,33,623/-
SR have to pay Security / Caution Deposit at the time of Joining OR the same will be deducted in Five equal
installments from their salary. This deposit will be refunded without interest after completion of SRship.
•        Residents may resign after completing five months of service, provided they give one month’s notice (i.e.,
complete 6 months’ total service). In such cases, they will be eligible for a refund of the deposit.
•        If a Resident leaves the post without serving the required notice period, their last month’s salary (30 days)
will be forfeited.

6. Appointed candidates may be placed as per needs of the Departments in the Advanced Centre for Treatment,
Research and Education in Cancer at Kharghar, Navi Mumbai & Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, or any of our Non-
Mumbai centre’s (Sangrur, Mullanpur, Punjab, Varanasi, Visakhapatnam, Muzaffarpur, Guwahati) by rotation as
and when necessary.

7. Fellows may be provided sharing accommodation subject to availability. Hostel Charges will be deducted every
month from stipend/salary.

8. All U.G./P.G./Super Specialty degrees must be recognized by National Medical Commission. It is mandatory for
all those who are selected and appointed on Senior Resident position at ACTREC to be registered with Maharashtra
Medical Council.
9. The candidates who are working under Central / State Government / Autonomous Body / Semi Government
Organizations must upload their No Objection Certificate through The Head of their Institution. The candidate will
be allowed to appear for the MCQ/interview only on production of original NOC

10. Candidates shall pay the online application fee of Rs.100/- by using Debit Card / Credit Card/ UPI. The
    application fee once paid will not be refunded under any circumstances. Candidates are to ensure that they
    fulfill the eligibility criteria before applying for the post and making payment of application Fee. Duplication of
    fees will not be refunded.

11. The Online application forms must be filled out completely in all respects. incomplete & not submitted
applications will be rejected. No other mode of application will be accepted.

12. If result awaited candidates apply for above post they should declare their degree passing on the day of
MCQ/VIVA, who failed to submit will not be allowed to appear for MCQ/VIVA.

13. Last date for online application is 08.10.2026 till 05.30 p.m. (Indian Standard Time). The candidates are advised
to apply online application well in advance without waiting for the closing date. Candidates are “NOT” required to
submit or send hard copy of application form. (Please confirm application date)

14. Candidates must submit documentary evidence in support of the details furnished in the Online Application Form
regarding date of birth, qualifications, experience, caste, disability certificate, NOC etc., failing which such applications
will be treated as incomplete and summarily rejected.

15. Tata Memorial Centre reserves the right to cancel the posts, fix minimum eligibility standard / bench mark and
restrict no. of candidates called for MCQ/Interview taking into account various factors like no. of vacancies,
performance of the candidate etc., and decided to determine the qualifying marks for selecting candidates for the
interview. Merely fulfilling the prescribed qualifications will not entitle an applicant to be called for MCQ/Interview.
The Tata Memorial Centre also reserves the right to fix minimum eligibility standard / cut-off marks
(Group/Stream/Discipline/Category-wise etc.) while finalizing such candidates to be called for interview as well as
selecting the candidates for final selection after the interview. The decision of the Director, Tata Memorial Centre in
this regard shall be final.

16. All correspondence with the applicant will be done through e-mail clinicalacademics@actrec.gov.in (Contact
details:022-68735000 EXTN: 6068). Tata Memorial Centre does not take any responsibility for non-receipt of
application through Online / wrong e-mail ID OR e-mails delivery to spam/bulk mail folder etc. All applicants must
provide latest mobile numbers and e-mail for timely communication.

17. MCQ examination will only be conducted when number of applicants are more than three times than the number
of posts advertised. However, there will be no MCQ test for the post against which less number of applications are
received than the vacancies. Dean (Health Science) ACTREC will have the discretion to decide for which post MCQ
examination to be conducted and for which post there will be no MCQ examination. The decision thereof will be final.

18. No TA/DA will be admissible for appearing in the MCQ/Interview.

19. Application will be rejected if the candidate provides incorrect information in the application form. No
correspondence in this regard will be entertained.
ENTRANCE EXAM/VIVA: Shortlisted candidates name for MCQ/ VIVA will be uploaded on our website
(actrec.gov.in-examination/interview section). Candidates are advised to check the website regularly for any
updated information related to the MCQ/VIVA.
20. Shortlisted candidates will be given the option to attend the interview in person or they can request a link for
     an online interview.
21. Link to apply for the above posts: https://webapps.actrec.gov.in/actjrfapp/frm_Registration.aspx




                                                                                                    (PROF. BHAKTI TRIVEDI)
                                                                                                     Dean (Health Sciences)
                                                                                                              TMC-ACTREC
