6

avail the facility of Scribe. For engaging the Scribe, candidates will have to indicate the ain while

filling Online Application Form. Engagement of Scribe will be subject to the following conditions

(a). Candidate will have to arrange for the Seribe on their own. ; ;

(b). The Seribe so arranged should not himselffherself be the candidate for the Advertisement for

which he/she is appearing ae Seribe. Also, same Seribe should not he engaged for more than one

candidate for the same Advertisement, The Scribe and the candidate shall give a declaration to this
effect. Any violation, if detected at any stage, will render both candidate and Seribe disqualified. |

(c). Candidates opting for Seribe will have to provide additional details for Scribes during submission

of online Application Form, so that Admit Card letter may be istued for Scribe, Seribe should

produce original and valid ID proof at € BY Center and bring one coloured pasaport Size photograph.

(a). Separate e-Admit Cand will be issued to the Scribe accompanying the candidate

(e). The candidate shall be responsible for any misconduct on the part of the Seribe brought by

hinv/her during CBT examination

(). Candidate availing the assistance of a Seribe shall be eligible for compensatory time of 20 minutes

for every hour of CBT examination

6. Fee Payable: Candidates (Except Female/ST/Persons with Benchmark Disability candidates) are

required to pay a Fee of Rs.100/- (Rupees One hundred only) by using Net Banking,

VISA/Master/Rupay/Credit/Debit Card, UPI Paymen/QR Code.

7. Centre of Computer Based Test (CBT) for All Posts:

(i) The Examination will be held (in CBT mode) at South Andaman.

(i)The date and Venue/Centre of CBT shall be intimated later through SMS/e-mail-ID of the

candidate.

8. INDICATIVE SYLLABUS/DURATION/MARKS/NEGATIVE MARKS:

Subject of the CBT Online Examination, time allowed and maximum marks for each subject will be

as follows:

No. of Total Total |
Questions(each Duration/Timing for | Duration/Timing for |
question shall all candidates except | Visually
carry one visually Handicapped/Cerebr

ee handicapped/cerebr | al Palsy candidates |
al palsy candidates _| onl
rhe =f
Section- 120 minutes 120 minutes plus
40 minutes
ee
(Section-I)
NOTE-I: There will be negative marking of 0.25 marks for each wrong answer. Candidates are,
therefore, advised to keep this in mind while answering the questions.
Timings:- The CBT Online Examination shall be conducted in multiple shifts shall be intimated
accordingly.
NB: The Department of Agriculture, A&N Administration reserve the right to restrict entry to
the examination venue till 09.30 am.
‘There shall be a single question paper with 02 Parts i.e One part for ‘General Studies’ and One part
for ‘Subject Paper’, having: “Objective Multiple- Choice- type Questions”, The Authorities Shall
however, have full discretion to fix the minimum qualifying marks in one and all the subjects. The
question paper will be in English and Hindi languages only. Only such candidates, who attain a
minimum standard, as may be fixed by the Authorities in their discretion.
INDICATIVE SYLLABUS: - FOR CBT EXAMINATION
EXAMINATION (Post Graduate/Graduate):
General Studies: - The question paper will consist of the following subjects
a. General_Intelligence:- ‘The test will include questions on similarities and differences, space
visualization, problem solving, analysis, judgement, decision making, visual memory, discriminating
observation, relationship concepts, figure classification, arithmetical number series, non-verbal series
