a
3
Vil) Online application consists of five sections viz. (1) Personal details, (2) Post selection, (3)
Education Qualification details, (4) Experience (if any). (5) Payment details and (6) Upload
Photograph and Signature.

vill) Only those application which are complete with all the above six section will be treated as

| complete, However, applications that are submitted partially, due to reasons such as network
issues, can be resumed and completed at a later point In time through appropriate options in

| the recruitment portal. All such applications are to be completed before the last date of the
online application.

| ix) Candidates have to upload good quality Photograph and Signature in jpg/jpeg format, The
background should be a plain white or off-white. It should have full face, frant view, eyes open.
The photograph should be without cap, mask or glasses/spectacies. If the uploaded photograph
is not legible and of poor quality, then his/her admission to the examination hall may be
prohibited. Applications with in-appropriate photographs and signature or blurred, not meeting
with the prescribed requirement, will be rejected summarily.
* Photograph should be between 20 KB to 50 KB and the resolution recommended is
200x230 (width x height) in jpg/ipeg format and
* Signature should be between 10 KB to 20 KB and the resolution is 140%60 (width x
height) in jpeg formal. ;
* Other documents such as proof of age, qualifications, category, NOC etc. should be
between 100 KB to 500 KB to be uploaded as instructed in the online portal.

(x) Before submitting his/her ONLINE application, the candidate should read and follow the
instructions for filing the online application and follow the instructions as directed in the online
portal. Candidates should read the eligibility conditions for the examination and satisfy
himself’herself that he/she fulfils all-eligibility conditions to avoid rejection of her/his candidature,
before submitting his/her ONLINE application.

(xi) Candidates are advised in their own interest to submit the online application much before the
closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid the possibility of disconnection/ inability or
failure to login to the A & N Administration's website on account of heavy load on the website
during the closing days. Agriculture department & N Administration will not be responsible for
the candidates not being able to submit their applications in stipulated time limit for any
reason(s) stated to be beyond their control.

(xii) The candidates should apply in order of their preferences of posts. No request for change of
preference of post shall be entertained at later stage and no correspondence will be made in
this regard.

(xiii) Before submission of the online application, candidates must check and ensure that they
have filled correct details in each field of the online application form. Once online application
form is submitted, no request for change/ correction/modification (including change of category)
will be entertained or allowed under any circumstances, Request received in this regard in any
form like Post, Email, by hand, etc. shall not be entertained and no correspondence will be
made in this regard. Candidates will be responsible for any mistake in the data of application
form & fee paid by him/her.

| (xiv) The Agriculture department, A & N Administration does not accept any responsibility towards
the candidates not being able to submit their application within the last date on account of any
reasons beyond the control of the Administration.

(xv) The information furnished by the candidates in their application(s) will be verified by the
Agriculture Department, A & N Administration with reference to original documents during the
Online Document Verification. If it is found during verification of documents that any information
furnished by the candidate in online applications is wrong/false, his/her candidature will be

| rejected forthwith. The candidates should ensure that they have furnished correct information in
the application form

(xvi) Helpdesk: Candidate may contact for any queries related to ONLINE Application Form and
downloading the Admit card in the website through email: diragri@amail.com or Telephone
numbers are available in the case of any technical glitches during registration, contact 03192-
233257 from 10.00 Am to 05.00 PM in all working days i.e Monday to Friday.
