4

B Copies of documents with the downloaded Application to be submitted al the time of

documents verification after the CBT examination;

a) One copy of recent passport size photograph.

b) Self attested copies of certificate of:

i) Essential Qualification certificate of the respective field and higher qualification if any issued

by the Competent Authority in respect of the post (category of posts) applied for.

li) Xth Pass Certificate issued by the CBSE or any other recognized Board of School Education
indicating the date of birth.

iii) OBC/ST certificate issued by any Revenue Authorily Competent within the jurisdiction of
ASN Administration in respect of such reserved Category.

iv) Employment Registration certiicate/card Issued by the Competent Authority, under A&N
Administration indicating registration number.

3. ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS:

(i) Applicant must be an Indian Citizen.

(ii) All eligible candidates shall be required to apply Online for the post(s) whether they are
registered with the Employment Exchange or otherwise.

(ii) The Departmental Candidates must also apply online within the due date and must be
Produced the NOC for the respective post at the time of online verification of original
certificates/documents,

4. AGE LIMIT:

The age limits for the posts as per the Recruitment Rules are: _

B(Non Gazetted

Assistant, Group B(Non

Gazetted)

Agriculture Assistant, Group iii) 18-33 years for male

Note:- i) The age will be determined on the basis of the Date of Birth provided in the 10

pass Certificate or Birth Certificate. No other documents will be entertained for the said

purpose,

ii) A Candidate for this examination must have attained the age of 18 years and must not

have attained the age over and above 30 years for Group B(NG) and 33/38 years in respect

of male/female candidates for Group C post as on the closing date of receipt of on-line

application.

Besides the above, age relaxation in respect of reserved categories of aspirants permissible

beyond the upper age limit are as detailed below:

Category Age-relaxation —_| Group
permissible ‘BYNG) [Male Female
beyond the upper | (M/F)
age limit

[ost S years 3S ys By ays |

PwD (Unreserved)

[4 | Pwb (OBC)

PwD (ST)

Ex-Servicemen (ESM) __| 03 years after deduction of the military service rendered from
the actual age as on closing date of receipt of online

| application for Group C posts only.

7 Central Government

| Civilian Employees: Who

| have rendered not less

than 3 years regular and
continuous service as on | For Group C posts: Up to 40 years of age (45 years for
closing date for receipt of | ST)
