8
3. Name of the post:- Agriculture Assistant
> Subject Paper [Graduate Level]

1) hnportance of Agriculture

2) Fundamentals of Crop Production and Horticulture

3) Natural Resource Management ~ Soil & Water resource , Soil Survey, Soil fertility and productivity,

rained agriculture, land use pattern, irrigation

4) Crop Management & Allied Agricultural activities

5) Crop Improvement

6) Seed Science and Technology

7) Crop Protection Principles and Practices

8) Farm Business and Finance Management

9) Agricultural Marketing and Market Intelligence

10) Agricultural Extension; Principles and methods

11) Propagation / Micro Propagation of Horticultural Crops

12) Production Technology of Fruit, Vegetable, Spices & Plantation crops

13) Basic Floriculture & Landscape Gardening

14) Post- Harvest Technology of Horticultural crops

9. VERIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS:

All the successfull candidates shortlisted should get their original certificates/testimonials duly verified as
are mandatory and submit another self-attested copy of all those mandatory certificate/Testimonials in
person alongwith the printed copy of online application to the authorized officers/officials at the
prescribed venue on the schedule date & time, failing which, his/her candidature shall be struck off from
the relevant panel for all purposes and no further request/correspondence shall be entertained.
10. GENERAL_INSTRUCTIONS TO BE COMPLIED WITH BY THE CANDIDATES IN THE CBT
ONLINE EXAMINATION

Note: The admission of the candidates for the online examination is provisional. If it is found later on or any
stage that he/she does not fulfill any of the conditions of the eligibility, the candidature will be cancelled and
no appeal against such cancellation will be entertained. Therefore, candidates are advised to check carefully
and satisfy themselves that he/she fulfil all the conditions of eligibility to the post applied

a) E-Admit Card for CBT, containing the details of the Centre/Venue for the Examination etc., the candidates
are required to take a print out of their Admit Card from the A & N Administration's website using their
Registration Number and the Password. Candidates will not be allowed to enter the Examination Centres
without valid Admit Card
b) Candidates must carry the printed copy of e-Admit Card and one valid photo ID (Islander Card, Pan Card,
Voter ID Card, Driving License, Aadhaar Card, issued by the Government of India in ORIGINAL while
coming to appear in the CBT Examination falling which candidate shall not be allowed to appear in CBT
examination.
¢) Candidates must report to their allotted Examination Cente at least one and a half hour before the
commencement of Examination. The entry gates of Examination Centre will be closed half an hour before
‘commencement of Examination. No entry will be allowed after closure of gates.
4) Candidates are required to bring one recent passport size photograph.
€) The candidate should not bring any other paper except the Admit card to the Recruitment Examination
Hall/Room. Candidate found using or attempting to use any unfair means shall be liable to such punishment as
Competent Authority may decide to impose.
£) Banned Items: Candidates are not permitted to use Mobile Phone, Micro Phone, Calculators, or any other
associated accessories, Log Tables, Pager, Digital Diary, Electronic/Smart Watch Wrist Watches, Bluetooth
devices or any other clectronic/electrical devices, Book and Note etc. which are strictly prohibited. If any
candidate comes with the above restricted item, he/she shall not be allowed to appear in the CBT Examination
unless he/she keeps it outside the premises of Examination Centre. There is no facility for sale keeping of the
personal belongings of candidates outside the Examination Hall and the Agriculture department will not be
responsible for any loss. Possession of these items, whether in'use or otherwise, will be considered as "Use of

Bs
