10
KY Success at the ekamination confers no tight of appointment whatsoever unless the Department of
Agriculture, A & N Administration is satisfled after such enquiry ai may be considered necessary that the
candidate is suitable in all respects of appointment to the service/post and the decision in this regard shall be
final & binding
12, RESOLUTION OF THE TIE CASES
In cases where more than one candidate secures the equal aggregate marks, tie will he resolved by applying the
following methods one afer another.
1. Date of birth ie. The eandidate older in age gets preference.
| 2. By referring to the alphabetical order of the names taking first name into consideration
| 13, ADMISSION TO THE EXAMINATION
All candidates who apply in response to this advertisement by the CLOSING DATE FOR RECEIPT OF
ONLINE APPLICATION shall be assigned registration numbers/unique application number. The Registration
humber/unique application number will be mandatorily required to download the Admit Card for the
recruitment examination. Admit Card for the CBT Online Examination will be made available on the website
which is to be DOWNLOAD PRINTED OUT by all the candidates through Internet at
/huips://erecruitment.andamannicobar.gov.in which the candidates themselves should generate (download) in
hard form and the Department of Agriculture, AN Administration shall not be responsible for non-receipt
delay in obtaining the same by the candidate.
e 14, ACTION AGAINST CANDIDATES FOUND GUILTY OF MISCONDUCT:
While filling the application form, the candidates are cautioned that they should not furnish any particular that
is false or suppress any material information. Candidates are also cautioned that they should in no case,
attempt to alter or otherwise tamper with any entry in a document or the attested certified copy submitted by
them, nor should they submit a tampered/fabricated document.
Without prejudice to criminal action/debarment from A & N Administration wherever necessary, candidature
will be summarily cancelled at any stage as decided by the Competent Authority of the recruitment in respect
of candidates found having indulged in any of the following malpractices:
1) In possession of MOBILE PHONE & ACCESSORIES AND OTHER ELECTRONIC GADGETS WITHIN
THE PREMISES OF THE EXAMINATION CENTRES, WHETHER IN USE OR IN SWITCHED OFF
MODE AND IN PERSON OR OTHERWISE,
2) Involved in various malpractices.
3) Using unfair means in the examination hall like copying, cheating ete
4) Obtaining support for his/her candidature by any means,
5) Impersonate/ procuring impersonation by any person.
6) Submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with,
7) Making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information.
8) Resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his/her candidature for the
examination.
9) Misbehaving in any other manner in the examination hall with the Supervisor, lavigilator or Commission's
representatives:
10) Intimidating or causing bodily harm to the staff employed by the Administration/Commission for the
conduct of examination. .
11) To be ineligible for the Examination by not fulfilling the eligibility conditions mentioned in the Notice.
12) Candidature can also be cancelled at any stage of the recruitment on any other ground which, the
Department of Agriculture, A & N Administration considers to be sufficient cause for cancellation of
candidature,
15. DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, N ADMINISTRATION'S DECISION SHAL
FINAL AND BINDING
‘The decision of the Department of Agriculture, A & N Administration in all matters relating to eligibility,
acceptance or rejection of the applications, penalty for false information, mode of selection, conduct of
examination(s) allotment of examination centres, selection and allotment of posts/organizations to selected
candidates shall be final and binding on the candidates and no enquiry/correspondence shall be entertained in
this regard.
16. COURTS JURISDICTION
Any dispute in regard to this recruitment shall be subject to Courts/tribunals having jurisdiction over the A &
N Administration only.
