:
; ‘unfair means" in the recruitment examination and appropriate action will be taken by the Department against
such candidates,
8)Information on website only:- Any further information/corrigendum addendum/details regarding
Applications or applicants / any other information regarding schedule of Examinations or Admit Card /Call
Letter for Document Verification/otices /results/panels shall he posted in the official website of A & N
Administration https:/erecruitment.andamannicabar.gov.in and no separate information shall be issued in the
a
Drint media (Press), Thus, the candidates are advised to keep themselves updated by frequently checking the
official website of A & N Administration,
h) Doring the recruitment examination the candidates shall strictly follow the instructions provided in the
Admit Card.
i) In case of fake/ fabricated application’ registration by misusing any dignitaries name/ photo, such candidate!
cyber café will be held responsible for the same and liable for suitable legal action under cyber-crime Act/ 17
Act.
3) No interim enquiry or correspondence will be entertained.
| 11, MODE OF SELECTION:
) Final selection for appointment to the post(s) notified herein will be made on the basis of total marks
secured in the CBT Examination subject to fulfilment of all essential requirement stipulated in existing RRs.
b) Merit list will be prepared on the principle that name of a candidate appears for appointment against one
post only, which will be determined strictly with reference to the order of individual merit and preference
exercised by him/her (candidate) in the application form.
c) The cut-offs in the CBT Examination may be different for vacancies against each post and the same shall be
fixed at the sole discretion of the Department of Agriculture, A & N Administration. Candidates for cach
vacancy will be finally selected based on their performance in the CBT Examination.
4) Candidates will be short-listed on the basis of their merit and preferences in the Computer Based Test
(CBT). Candidates for each vacancy will be finally selected based on their performance in the CBT Online
Examination.
¢) The shortlisted candidates, who qualify the online examination, will be called for certificate/document
verification in person.
f) The candidates shortlisted for certificate/document verification will be based on merit in the Recruitment
Examination, in the respective category.
g) ST, OBC, EWS, ESM & PwD candidates, who are selected on their merit without relaxed standards, will
not be adjusted against the reserved share of vacancies. Such candidates will be accommodated against the Un-
reserved category/general.
hh) The reserved vacancies will be filled up separately from amongst the eligible ST, OBC and EWS, who are
domicile of A & N Islands and who are lower in merit than the last General candidate (UR) in merit list of un-
reserved category but otherwise found suitable for appointment even by relaxed standard.
Note: The candidate applying for the post should ensure that they fulfil all eligibility conditions prescribed for
the post. Their admission at all the stages of recruitment process will be purely provisional, subject to their
satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions. Success in the recruitment examination confers no right of
appointment unless government is satisfied after such enquiry as may be considered necessary that the
candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to Government service/post and the decision of the
Department of Agriculture, A & N Administration in this regard shall be final & binding,
i) Provided that ST, OBC, EWS, ESM and PwD candidates, who are selected on their own merit without
relaxed standards, will not be adjusted against the reserved share of the vacancies. Such ESM and PwD
candidates will be accommodated against the general/unreserved vacancies as per their position in the overall
Merit List.
j) A person with disability who is selected on his/her own merit can be appointed against an unreserved
vacancy provided the post is identified suitable for Person with Disability of the relevant category.
