  ANDHRA PRADESH PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION :: VIJAYAWADA
      BRIEF NOTIFICATION NO. 16/2026, Dated: 15/09/2026

 DIRECT RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF FOREST RANGE OFFICERS
                  IN A.P. FOREST SERVICE

                          (General Recruitment)



1.     Applications are invited online through the Commission’s Website
(https://psc.ap.gov.in) from eligible candidates from 16/10/2026 to
05/11/2026 up to 11:59 P.M for Recruitment to the post of Forest Range
Officers in A.P. Forest Service.
2.     The eligible candidates desirous of applying shall apply online after
satisfying themselves with regard to the terms and conditions of this
Recruitment Notification. The details of provisional vacancies are notified
hereunder and the number of vacancies is subject to variation upon
confirmation being received from the concerned Department.

                                                  No. of      Scale of Pay
              Name of the post
                                                vacancies          Rs
                                                                48,440 -
Forest Range Officers in A.P. Forest Service        04
                                                                1,37,220


3. Educational Qualification:

      Applicants must possess the requisite Educational Qualification as on
the date of Detailed Notification.

      Must possess a Bachelor’s Degree of a University in India established
or incorporated by or under a Central Act or State Act or a Provincial Act or
an Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission; or any
equivalent qualification in the following subjects:

(I) Agriculture
(II) Botany
 (III) Chemistry
(IV) Computer Applications / Computer Science
(V) Engineering (Agriculture / Chemical / Civil / Computer / Electrical /
Electronics / Mechanical)
(VI) Environmental Science
(VII) Forestry
(VIII) Geology
(IX) Horticulture
(X) Mathematics
(XI) Physics
(XII) Statistics
(XIII) Veterinary Science
(XIV) Zoology
Please see the physical requirements in ONLINE Detailed Notification

4. Detailed Notification with breakup of vacancies, Scale of pay, Age,
Community, Educational Qualifications and any other information with
instructions   will   be   available   on   the  Commission’s  Website
(https://psc.ap.gov.in) on or before 16/10/2026.

5. The date of Detailed Notification will be reckoned as the crucial date in all
aspects.

IMPORTANT:

   (i) Applicants/Candidates should read the Commission’s Detailed
        Notification and other instructions carefully before applying for this
        Recruitment and enter the particulars properly in the Online
        Application Form.
   (ii) Applicants/Candidates have to submit applications only through online
        mode. Any application sent through any mode other than the prescribed
        online mode will not be entertained under any circumstances.
   (iii) Applicants/Candidates are advised to submit their applications
        through online well in advance of the last date to avoid last-minute
        rush.

6. The examination for this recruitment shall consist of a single-level
   examination only, and no Screening Test shall be conducted, irrespective
   of the number of applications received. The examination shall be
   conducted in online (CBRT) mode. In case the single-level examination is
   conducted in multiple sessions, the Commission will adopt a process of
   normalisation of marks, wherever considered necessary and applicable, in
   accordance with the methodology and procedure decided by the
   Commission. The details of such normalisation, if applicable, shall be
   notified by the Commission in due course.

7. The detailed Scheme and Syllabus for this Examination is annexed to this
   Notification to facilitate the candidates.



        Date:15/09/2026                                          Sd/-
        Place: Vijayawada                                     SECRETARY
                                      ANNEXURE

        SCHEME AND SYLLABUS TO THE POST OF FOREST RANGE OFFICER
                         IN A.P. FOREST SERVICE


                            SCHEME FOR WRITTEN EXAMINATION
                  (As per G.O.Rt.No.2493, General Administration (Ser-A) Dept.,
                                      dated:28/11/2018)
               WRITTEN EXAMINATION (OBJECTIVE TYPE)- Degree Standard

                                                    No.of     Duration         Maximum
PAPER               Subject
                                                    Questions (Minutes)        Marks

           General English (50 marks) & General
Qualifying Telugu (50 marks)                               100
                                                                                        100
Test                                                                    100
            (To be Qualified in English & Telugu
            individually) (SSC Standard)

PAPER-I     General Studies & Mental Ability               150          150             150

PAPER-II Mathematics (SSC standard)                        150          150             150

PAPER-III General Forestry - I                             150          150             150

PAPER-IV General Forestry - II                             150          150             150

                                                               Total                    600

NEGATIVE MARKS : As per G.O.Ms. No.235, Finance (HR-I, Plg & Policy)
Dept.,Dt.06/12/2016, for each wrong answer will be penalized with 1/3rd of the marks
prescribed for the question.

       N.B.: 1. Candidates are required to undergo a walking test and also a
       Medical Examination (conducted by a Medical Board). Both the tests shall
       be arranged by the Forest Department, duly taking concurrence of
       A.P.P.S.C. for this purpose the Commission will pick up eligible candidates
       in the ratio of 1:3 with reference to total number of vacancies as per General
       Rule 22 & 22A.

       2. Computer Proficiency Test (Qualifying Test) for eligible candidates in the
       ratio of 1:3 with reference to total number of vacancies notified will be
       conducted.
                      SYLLABUS FOR WRITTEN EXAMINATION

                        QUALIFYING TEST (100 Marks)
             GENERAL ENGLISH AND GENERAL TELUGU (SSC Standard)

    General English Test(50 Marks)               General Telugu Test (50 Marks)
        a) Comprehension                        a) Synonyms & Vocabulary
       b) Phrases and idioms                    b) Grammar
       c) Vocabulary            and             c) Telugu to English meanings
           punctuation                          d) English to Telugu meanings
       d) Logical re-arrangement of
           sentences



                                   PAPER-1
                       GENERAL STUDIES & MENTAL ABILITY
                                                                  (150 Marks)

  1. Major Current Events and Issues pertaining to International, National and
     State of Andhra Pradesh.
  2. General Science and its applications to the day to day life Contemporary
     developments in Science & Technology and Information Technology.
  3. History of India – emphasis will be on broad general understanding of the
     subject in its social, economic, cultural and political aspects with a focus on
     AP and Indian National Movement.
  4. Geography of India with focus on Andhra Pradesh.
  5. Indian polity and Governance: constitutional issues, public policy, reforms
     and e-Governance initiatives.
  6. Indian Economy and planning
  7. Sustainable Development and Environmental Protection
  8. Disaster management: vulnerability profile, prevention and mitigation
     strategies, Application of Remote Sensing and GIS in the assessment of
     Disaster
  9. Logical reasoning, analytical ability and logical interpretation.

   10. Data Analysis: Tabulation of data Visual representation of data Basic data
analysis (Summary Statistics such as mean, median, mode and variance) and
Interpretation.
                              PAPER-II
                       MATHEMATICS (SSC Standard)

                                                              (150 Marks)
1.ARITHMETICS:
   a) Number System-Natural numbers, Integers,
   b) Rational and Real numbers,
   c) Fundamental operations, addition, subtraction, multiplication, division,
      square roots, Decimal fractions.
   d) Unitary method-time and distance, time and work, percentages,
      applications to simple and compound interest, profit and loss, ratio and
      proportion, variation.
   e) Elementary Number Theory – Division algorithm, Prime and composite
      numbers. Tests of divisibility by 2,3,4,5,9 and 11.
   f) Multiples and factors, factorisation Theorem. H.C.F. and L.C.M.
      Euclidean algorithm. Logarithms to base 10, laws of logarithms, use of
      logarithmic tables.

2.ALGEBRA:
 a) Basic Operations, simple factors, Remainder Theorem, H.C.F., L.C.M.
 b) Theory of polynomials, solutions of quadratic equations, relation between
    its roots and coefficients (Only real roots to be considered). Simultaneous
    linear equations in two unknowns – analytical and Graphical solutions.
    Simultaneous linear in equations in two variables and their solutions.
 c) Practical problems leading to two simultaneous linear equations or in
    equations in two variables or quadratic equations in one variable and their
    solutions.
 d) Set language and set notation, rational expressions and conditional
    identities, laws of indices.

3.TRIGONOMETRY:
 Sine x, Cosine x, Tangent x when O o = x = 90o values of sin x, cos x and tan
 x, for x= Oo , 30o, 45o, 60o and 90o, Simple trigonometric identities. Use of
 trigonometric tables, Simple cases of heights and distances.

 4. GEOMETRY:
     i) Lines and angles, Plane and plane figures,

     ii) Theorems on
       a) Properties of angles at a point,
       b) Parallel lines,
       c) Sides and angles of a triangle,
       d) Congruency of triangles,
       e) Similar triangles,
       f) Concurrence of medians and altitudes,
       g) Properties of angles, sides and diagonals of a parallelogram,
          rectangle and square,
       h) Circles and its properties including tangents and normals,
       i) Loci.


  5.MENSURATION:
 a) Areas of squares, rectangles, parallelograms, triangle and circle.
 b) Areas of figures which can be split up into the figures (Field Book),
 c) Surface area and volume of cuboids, lateral surface and volume of right
    circular cones and cylinders, surface area and volume of spheres.

 6. STATISTICS:
 a) Collection and tabulation of statistical data,
 b) Graphical representation - frequency polygons, histograms, bar charts,
    pie charts etc.
 c) Measures of central tendency.



                                 PAPER - III
                             GENERAL FORESTRY-I
                                                               (150 Marks)

I.     RENEWABLE AND NON-RENEWABLE NATURAL RESOURCES:
a) Forest resources: Use and over-exploitation, deforestation,
   important case studies. Timber extraction, mining, dams and their
   effects on forests and tribal people.
b) Water resources: Use and over-utilization of surface and ground
   water, floods, drought, conflicts over water, dams-benefits and
   problems.
c) Mineral resources: Use and exploitation, environmental effects of
   extracting and using mineral resources.
d) Food resources: World food problems, changes caused by
   agriculture and overgrazing, effects of modern agriculture, fertilizer-
   pesticide problems, water logging, salinity.
e) Energy resources: Growing energy needs, renewable and non-
   renewable energy sources, use of alternate energy sources.
f) Land resources: Land as a resource, land degradation, man induced
   landslides, soil erosion and desertification.
    II. PLANT SCIENCES:
   a) The diversity in the living world and biological classification.
   b) Morphology of flowering plants-modifications and functions of roots,
       stems and leaves.
   c) Basics of plant tissues and how they differ from animal tissues.
   d) Basic anatomical structure of wood like annual rings, grain, texture,
       pores, fibers, pith, rays, etc.,
   e) Seed morphology- types of seeds viz., mono-cotyledonous and di-
       cotyledonous, albuminous and endospermic and their development,
       structure, dormancy, dispersal and germination.
   f) Reproduction in plants:
   g) Sexual incompatibility and sexual methods of reproduction in
       plants-Pollination, fertilization, hybridization and development of
       the fruit.
   h) Asexual and vegetative methods of reproduction
   i) Principles of Plant propagation- production of varieties and hybrids.
   j) Absorption and conduction of water and minerals salts
       translocation- transpiration – photosynthesis, respiration, digestion
       and assimilation of food, anabolism and catabolism- deficiency
       symptoms of essential elements, role of plant growth regulators in
       plants.
   k) Basic principles of inheritance and variation and molecular basis of
       inheritance with special emphasis on DNA & RNA.
   l) The most common diseases of plants, important factors affecting
       infections and the chemical, biological and genetic methods of
       disease control.
    III. BIODIVERSITY AND ITS CONSERVATION:
a) Definition and value of biodiversity, genetic, species and ecosystem
    diversity,
b) Biodiversity at global, National and local levels,
c) Hot-spots of biodiversity, causes of biodiversity losses, need and the
    measures for biodiversity conservation.
d) Major biomes of India, major abiotic factors that influence the life of
    organisms, responses of the organisms to such factors, adaptations for
    withstanding the extremes in the environment and population ecology.

   IV. SOIL SCIENCE & GEOLOGY:
a) Geological formation of the rocks and minerals of India.
b) Earth and its layers-domains of earth Types - of rocks and their
   formation- weathering process of rocks- factors affecting soil
   formation-physical, chemical and biological properties soil; minerals,
   their types and their conservation.
c) Soil conservation- definition, causes for erosion, types - wind and water
   erosion; conservation and management of eroded soils/areas, wind
   breaks, shelter belts; sand dunes; reclamation of saline and alkaline
   soils, water logged and other waste lands. Role of forests in conserving
   soils.
d) Maintenance and build-up of soil organic matter; forest leaf litter and
   composting; Role of microorganisms in ameliorating soils; N and C
   cycles.

   V.WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND WATER SHED
   MANAGEMENT:
  a) Basics of surface and subsurface water resources, pollution of water
     and water resource management.
  b) Concepts of watershed; role of mini-forests and forest trees in overall
     resource management, forest hydrology, watershed development.
  c) Water-harvesting and conservation; ground water recharge and
     watershed management; role of integrating forest trees, horticultural
     crops, field crops, grass and fodders.

   VI. SILVICULTURE, AGRO FORESTRY, SOCIAL FORESTRY,
   COMMUNITY FORES MANAGEMENT:
  a) General Silvicultural Principles; ecological and physiological factors
     influencing vegetation, natural and artificial regeneration of forests,
     methods of propagation, grafting techniques; site factors;
  b) Nursery and planting techniques — nursery beds, polybags and
     maintenance, water budgeting, grading and hardening of seedlings,
     special approaches, establishment and tending.
  c) Silviculture of the following economically important species grown in
     Andhra Pradesh such as

          1) Acacia nilotica
          2) Azadirachta indica,
          3) Dendrocalamus strictus,
          4) Casuarina equisetifolia,
          5) Dalbergia sisoo,
          6) Emblica officinalis,
          7) Eucalyptus spp,
          8) Gmelina arborea,
          9) Pterocarpus marsupium,
          10) Pterocarpus santalinus
          11) Santalum album
          12) Tectona grandis,
        13) Melia dubia and
        14) Leucaena leucocephala
d) Agroforestry: scope and necessity; role in the life of people and
   domestic animals and in integrated land use, planning especially
   related to soil and water conservation, water recharge, nutrient
   availability to crops, nature and eco-system preservation including
   ecological balances through pest- predator relationships and
   providing opportunities for enhancing biodiversity, medicinal and
   other flora and fauna.
e) Agro forestry systems under different agro-ecological zones,
   selection of species and role of multipurpose trees and NTFPs,
   techniques, food, fodder and fuel security.
f) Objectives, scope and necessity of social forestry.
g) Genesis, principles, objectives and methodology of Community
   Forest management in Andhra Pradesh.



                             PAPER – IV
                         GENERAL FORESTRY-II
                                                            (150 Marks)


I.       ECOSYSTEM & WILDLIFE:
     a) Concept of an ecosystem, Structure and function of an ecosystem,
        the rate of biomass production, GPP, NPP, decomposition and
        energy flow through different trophic levels. Ecological pyramids
        and ecological succession.
     b) Introduction, types, characteristic features, structure, functions
        and services of the ecosystems such as Forest ecosystem,
        Grassland ecosystem, Desert ecosystem, Aquatic ecosystems
        (ponds, streams, lakes, rivers, oceans, estuaries),
     c) Wildlife of India, endangered species of India; sanctuaries and
        national parks of India and Biological rhythms.

II.    FOREST PROTECTION WILDLIFE BIOLOGY:
a) Injuries to forest - abiotic and biotic destructive agencies, insect —
    pests and disease, effects of air pollution on forests and forest die
    back.
b) Susceptibility of forests to damage, nature of damage, cause,
    prevention, protective measures and benefits due to chemical and
    biological control.
c) General forest protection against fire, equipment and methods,
    controlled use of fire, economic and environmental costs;
d) Timber salvage operations after natural disasters.
e) Role of afforestation and forest regeneration in absorption of CO2.
f) Rotational and controlled grazing, different methods of control
   against grazing and browsing animals;
g) effect of wild animals on forest regeneration,
h) Human impacts: Forest encroachment, poaching, grazing, live
   fencing, theft, shifting cultivation and control.

III. FOREST UTILIZATION:
a) Traditional and improved/modern tools used in logging, wood
    seasoning, wood/timber preservation,
b) logging-transport methods,
c) Physical properties of wood and their importance in identification of
    timber species.
d) Uses of important MFP/NTFP species available in the forests of A.P.
e) List of plants known to be antidotes of snake and scorpion
    poisoning.

IV.    ANIMAL MANAGEMENT:
a) Animal management – animal ailments and treatments.
b) Definition of some animals like human beings, wolf, jackals, lion
    rabbit etc., based on incisors- canine/cuspids, pre-molars and
    molars,
c) Poisonous and non-poisonous snakes of India, symptoms following
    the snake bite, treatment of snake bite.
d) Role of nutrition in animal health and production.
e) Nutrition deficiencies and their management.
f) Morphological features of a bird and the concept of migration in
    birds and the ecological importance of birds.

V.    ECONOMIC ZOOLOGY:
 Beneficial and harmful insects including insect vectors of human
 diseases, Industrial fish, prawn and molluscs of India, Non-poisonous
 and poisonous snakes of India, Venomous animals-centipede, wasp,
 honey bee.

VI.   FOREST ECONOMICS, FOREST LEGISLATION AND
      ADMINISTRATION:

a) Forest economics - fundamental principles, cost-benefit analyses;
   estimation of demand and supply;
b) Forest economics – investment planning, depreciation, working
   capital, types of costs viz., gross, fixed, variable, marginal &
   opportunity costs.,
c) Methods employed for investment calculations such as Net surplus
   method, payoff time method, present value or capital value method,
   internal interest method, capital cost method.
d) Forest Legislation-History of forest development; essence of Indian
   Forest Policy of 1894, 1952 and 1990. National Forest Policy -1988.
e) Forest laws, necessity; general principles, AP Forest Act-1967;
   Forest Conservation Act-1980; Wildlife Protection Act-1972 and
   their amendments; Application of Indian Penal Code to Forestry.
f) Forest Administration: Indian Forest Service, AP State Forest
   Service, AP State Forest Subordinate Services, AP Forest
   Department-Its structure and activities.

VII.    FOREST INVENTORY:

a) Scope and objectives of Forest inventory.
b) Complete enumeration vs. sampling, need for sampling, basic
   concepts in sampling, designing large-scale sample surveys,
   sampling and non- sampling errors, simple random sampling.
c) Properties of a good estimator, estimation of sample size, stratified
   random sampling, systematic sampling cluster sampling, and ratio
   and regression methods of estimation under simple and stratified
   random sampling.

VIII.   FOREST MENSURATION & REMOTE SENSING:

a) Statistics- population parameters- measures of central tendency and
   dispersion, aim of sampling, sampling methods, regression.
b) Methods of measuring —diameter, girth, height and volume of trees;
   form-factor; volume estimation of stand, current annual increment;
   mean annual increment, Yield calculation, yield and stand tables:
c) Forest planning, evaluation and monitoring tools and approaches for
   integrated planning.
d) Modern instruments used in forest mensuration like RELASKOP,
   ALTIMETER, WEDGE PRISM, PLANIMETER etc.,
e) Basic principles of Remote sensing- Air photo interpretation GIS,
   GPS, and GNSS.
f) Forest cover monitoring through remote sensing;
IX.   ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES:

a) Definition, scope and importance, need for public awareness on
   environmental issues.
b) Environmental Pollution: Definition, Causes, effects and control
   measures of Air pollution, Water pollution, Soil pollution, Marine
   pollution, Noise pollution, Thermal pollution &Nuclear hazards.
c) Solid waste Management: Causes, effects and control measures of
   urban and industrial wastes.
d) Social Issues and the Environment: From Unsustainable to
   Sustainable development.
e) Urban problems related to energy, Water conservation, rain water
   harvesting, Resettlement and rehabilitation of people; its problems
   and concerns,
f) Environmental ethics: Issues and possible solutions, Climate
   change, global warming, acid rain, ozone layer depletion, nuclear
   accidents and holocaust, Wasteland reclamation, Consumerism and
   waste products.
g) Necessity of Environment Protection Act-1986, Air (Prevention and
   Control of Pollution) Act-1981, Water (Prevention and control of
   Pollution) Act-1974, APWALTA-2004.

 X. FOREST SURVEY & ENGINEERING:
 a) Basics of Survey and forest Engineering – bearings, Offsets- types of
 concrete, painting, varnishing, glazing, pointing, plastering.
 b) Road alignment- main considerations in road alignment,
 c)Types of roads depending upon the duration of the use of road,
 d)Use of ghat tracer, Dumpy level, IOP level and Theodolite.
 XI. FIRST AID:
a) Primary goal, key aims and types of the first-aid.
b) First Aid- first aid for bleeding, drowning, venomous insects, burns
    and scalds, shock, unconsciousness, fits, fainting, sun stroke,
    sprains, wounds, fractures.

                                 *****
       SCHEME & SYLLABUS OF THE COMPUTER PROFICIENCY TEST
                                  (CPT)
                  Scheme for Computer Proficiency Test
          (As per G.O.Ms.No.26, G.A. (Ser.B) Dept., dt: 24.02.2023)
               Scheme of the examination (Practical Type)

                                                        Minimum
                        Duration    Maximum             Qualifying Marks
Test
                        (Minutes)   Marks
                                                SC/ST/PBD B.C’s O.C’s
Proficiency in Office
Automation with
usage of Computers             60   100              30        35     40
and Associated
Software.


                     Syllabus for Computer Proficiency Test
                                      PART-A
  1. INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTERS: Introduction to Computers -
     Components and their classification - Peripheral devices and their
     purpose. Input Devices - Keyboard, Mouse, Scanner, Lighten, Touch
     screens, Joystick, Micro phone, Scanner, Digital camera, Bar code
     reader, Biometric sensor. Output Devices: Display devices, Printers,
     Monitor, Speaker, Plotter, Secondary Storage Devices – Feature- Driven
     Development (FDD), Magnetic tape, Universal Serial Bus(USB), Pen
     Drives, Disks - The Role of input Processing / output processing devices
     - Computing Concepts - Data - Information – Random - Access Memory
     (RAM) – Read-Only Memory(ROM) - Control Unit - Memory Unit –
     Arithmetic Logic Unit(ALU).
  2. COMPUTER SOFTWARE TYPES: System Software, Application
     Software, Embedded software, Proprietary Software, Open source
     software (their purpose and characteristics only).
  3. OPERATING SYSTEM: Purpose of operating system, Single User and
     Multi User Operating Systems with Examples.
  4. WINDOWS OPERATING SYSTEM: Interfacing Graphical User Interface
     (GUI), Differences between Character User Interface (CUI) and
     Graphical User Interface(GUI) - working With Files and Folders - More
     About Files - Running An Application Through the File Manager -
     Running an Application Through the Program Manager - Setting up of
     Printer, Webcam, Scanner and other peripheral devices.
5. LINUX/MAC OS (only basic concepts): Introduction to Linux -
   Features and advantages of Linux, File handling commands, directory
   handling commands - User Management - File permissions Macintosh
   Apple Computer (MAC) OS - Introduction - Advantages of Macintosh
   Apple Computer (MAC) OS. Basics commands
6. INTERNET CONCEPTS (only basic concepts): Minimum Hardware
   and Software Requirements for a system to use internet,
   Communication Protocols and Facilities - Various browsers - What is
   Internet Protocol (IP) Address - Steps required in connecting system to
   network - Uploading and Downloading Files from Internet
7. ELECTRONIC MAIL (only basic concepts): Sending and receiving
   mails, Basic E-Mail Functions, Using your word processor for E-mail,
   Finding E-Mail Address, Mailing Lists and lists Servers.
8. WORLD WIDE WEB (only basic concepts): WWW advantages of the
   Web - how to navigate with the Web - Web Searching.

                                   PART – B
1. OFFICE SUITE: MSOFFICE or any open source office like Libre Office
   /Apache Open Office Neo office for Windows/Linux/Macintosh Apple
   Computer (MAC)OS.
2. GETTING STARTED WITH OFFICE: Introduction to Office Software-
   Starting and Exiting the Office Applications - Introducing the Office
   Shortcut Bar - Customizing Office Shortcut Bar.
3. FILE OPERATIONS IN THE OFFICE: Common Office Tools and
   Techniques - Opening An Application - Creating Files - Entering And
   Editing Text - Saving Files - Opening Files - Closing a File - Exiting The
   Application - Managing Your files With the Office Applications.
4. TOOLS IN THE OFFICE APPLICATIONS: Key Combinations - Cut,
   Copy and Paste - Drag And Drop Editing - Menu Bars And Toolbars -
   Undo and - Redo - Spell Checking - Auto Correct - Find and Replace -
   Help And The Office Assistants - Templates and Wizards.
5. WORD PROCESSING (MS WORD or its equivalent in Libre office
   /Apache Open Office / Neo office for Windows/s/Linux/Mac OS):
   Starting Word
  Title Bar - Menu Bar - Format Bar - Standard Bar - Ruler - Workspace
    Area - Scroll Bar - Status Bar - Different Toolbars - Option a Menu
    Bar - Creating New Document When Word is Running - Opening Pre
    existing Documents When Word is Running - Designing Your
    Document - Typing Text - Selection text - Deleting Text - Formatting
    text and document - copying and moving - Saving Document - Page
    Setup - Properties of a document - Undo-Redo-Cut-Copy a Document
    - Pasting a Document - Print Preview - Printing - Select All - Find -
     Replace - Go To - Four Different View Of A Document - Normal, Web
     Layout, Print Layout, and Outline Layout- Document Map - Full
     Screen - Zoom - Objects - Page Break - Header and Footer - Page
     Number - Auto Format - Auto Text - Inserting Date And Time -
     Working With Header, Footers-footnotes-Fields-Symbols-Caption
     Cross Reference-Index-Tabs-Table and Sorting - Working With
     Graphics - Inserting Pictures - Modifying Pictures - Word Art -
     Inserting Chart - Inserting Files - Hyper Linking - Bookmark - Using
     Different Fonts - Paragraph – Bullets Borders and Shading-Columns-
     Drop Cap-Theme-Change Case Background-Frames-Style-Spelling
     And Grammar - Set Language - Word Count - Auto Summarize - Auto
     Correct - Merge Document - Protect Document - Envelopes And Labels
     - - Templates, Wizards And Sample Documents - drawing Tables -
     Merge Cell - Spilt Cells - Spilt Table - Table Auto Format - Auto Fit -
     Sort - Formula - Arrange All-Split- Micro Soft Word Help - Macros -
     Custom Toolbars - Keyboard Shortcuts - Menus - Mail Merge.
6. SPREAD SHEET (MS Excel or its equivalent in Libre Office / Apache
   Open Office / Neo office for Windows/Linux/Mac OS):
    Features Of Excel - Excel worksheet - Selecting Cell - Navigating With
    The Mouse And Keyboard - Entering And Editing Text - Text Boxes -
    Text Notes - Checking Spelling - Undoing And Repeating Action -
    Entering And Editing Formulas - Referencing Cells - Order Of
    Evolution in Formulas - Copying Entries And Equations To Minimize
    Typing - More Auto Fill Examples - Creating Custom Fill Lists
    Protecting And Un Protecting Documents And Cell - Creating A New
    Worksheet - Excel Formatting Tips And Techniques - Moving cell -
    Copying Cells - Sorting Cell Data - Insertion Cells Inserting As You
    Paste - Deleting Parts Of Worksheet - Clearing Parts Of A Worksheet -
    Excel Page Setup - Changing Column Width And Row Heights - Auto
    Format - Manual Formatting - Using style - Format Code Alter A
    Number's Appearance - Format Painter Speeds-Up Format Copying -
    Changing Font Size And Attributes - Adjusting Alignments - Cantering
    Text Across Column - Using Border Buttons And Commands -
    Changing Color And Shading - Inserting And Removing Page Breaks -
    Hiding Rows And Columns - Rearranging Worksheet - Entering
    Formula - Excel Functions - Inserting Rows And Columns - Saving A
    Worksheet - Printing A Worksheet - Printing Tips For Large Excel
    Project - Parts Of A Function - Functions Requiring Add-ins - Function
    Wizard - Example Of Functions By Category - Organizing Your Data -
    Excel's Chart Features - Chart Parts And Terminology - Instant charts
    with The chart wizard - Creating Chart On Separating Worksheets -
    Resizing And Moving Charts - Adding Chart Notes And Arrows - Editing
    Charts - Rotating 3-D Charts - Printing Charts - Deleting Charts
    Setting The Default Chart Type - Creating Trend Lines Data Map -
    Working With Graphics in Excel - Creating And Pacing Graphic objects
    - Resizing Graphs - Possible Sources Of Excel Graphics - Creating and
    Running Macro - Sorting Excel Data - Adding Subtotals To Databases
    - Customizing Excel - Customizing Workspace – Comma Separated
    Value (CSV) File format - Using Worksheet As Databases.
7. PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (MS Power Point or its equivalent in
   Libre      Office/Apache        Open       office/Neo     office     for
   Windows/Linux/Mac Os): Introduction - Starting Presentation
   Software - Views in Presentation Software - Slides - Terminology - Color
   Schemes - Formatting Slides - Creating a Presentation - Using the Auto
   Content Wizard - Masters- - Using a Template - Creating a Blank
   Presentation - Working with Text in Power Point - Adding Slides Editing
   And Working Text - Working in Outlaying view – Spell checking -
   Finding And Replacing Text - Formatting Text - Aligning Text -
   Developing Your Presentation - Importing images From The Outside
   World - The Clipart Gallery - Drawing in Presentation software- Bringing
   A Presentation to Life - Inserting Objects in Your Presentation -
   Inserting A Picture - Working With Graphics - Multimedia in Power
   Point - Animating The Objects, Pictures, Graphics, - Enhancements to
   the Slide Show Showing Slides Out Of Order Printing Presentation
   Elements - Finalizing The Presentation - Assigning Transitions And
   Timings - Setting The Master Slide - Setting Up The Slide Show -
   Running The Slide Show.

    Assessment Pattern:
    Part-A: Test may be designed to assess the candidate by means of
    MCQs.
                                              (20%of Total Marks)
    Part-B: A computer based assessment test where they need to:
   1. Prepare a model document and organize the same in a formatted
      manner. This should cover evaluating the typing speed, organizing
      the document and covering several other aspects such as inserting
      tables, inserting Images/WordArt, mail merge, etc.)
   2. Evaluating typing speed                 (25% of Total Marks)
    (This may be made mandatory for qualifying based on the
    norms existing)
   3. Organizing and inserting different objects
                                              (15% of Total Marks)
   4. Prepare an Excel Sheet to fill with data and format the sheet,
      merging/splitting cells, formulae for calculation in the cells,
   conditional formatting, preparation of different graphs based on the
   data.                                     (20% of Total Marks)
5. Prepare a Power Point presentation using the standard layouts
   available and filling different slides with content (Formatted text,
   images, tables, transition effects, animation etc.).
                                             (20%of Total Marks)

                               <<<0>>>
