                                    Government of India
                            Ministry of Commerce and Industry
                                  Department of Commerce
        Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority
 (3 Floor, NCUI Building, 3 Siri Institutional Area, August Kranti Marg Opp. Asiad Village,
                                          New Delhi)

F. No.: PAD-2023-24-000091                                                                  Dated: 11.08.2026

SUB: ENGAGEMENT OF ASSOCIATE (TRADE) (ON CONTRACT) IN APEDA, NEW DELHI

The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), an
autonomous organization under the Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce &
Industry, Govt. of India is mandated with the responsibility for promotion of agricultural and
processed food products from India. APEDA has been actively involved in agricultural trade
facilitation and intends to improve market access for Indian agricultural products at
international level. The role involves managing brand support, analyzing market trends,
developing marketing strategies, publicity and media relations, digital marketing and social
media, coordinating with the creative team, and overseeing brand collaborations. APEDA
intends to hire talented, innovative and dynamic Professionals for the positions of Associate
(Trade) (On Contract).

2.     Type and Tenure of Engagement

2.1    The engagement shall be at the level of Associate (Trade)

2.2    The engagement shall be purely on a contractual basis.

2.3    The engagement shall be initially for a period of one year including probation period of
       three weeks. The tenure of engagement may be extended on a year to year basis,
       depending on the performance evaluation. After three years no further extension will be
       permissible under any circumstances.

3.     Qualification, Experience and Vacancies: Applicants with the following qualifications
       and experience would be considered for engagement as Associate (Trade).

3.1 Qualifications:
      Position      Vacancy                 Discipline                  Educational Qualifications
                                                               Essential:-
                                                               (i) Masters in economics/ Agri Economics/
                                                               International Trade or in a related field;
                                                               and
                                                               (ii) Minimum 2 years of work experience
                                                               post masters’ degree in economics/ Agri.
                                                               Economics/ International Trade with
                                           Economics/          experience in:
           Associate
                             1*           International            - Tableau or other visualization Tools
            (Trade)
                                              Trade            such as Power BI or similar.
                                                                   - Proficiency in spread sheets,
                                                               presentation suites.

                                                               Desirable: -
                                                               Prior experience in Market Intelligence,
                                                               data analysis, Agriculture and Market
                                                               Access.
      * Competent authority reserves the right to increase or decrease the number of vacancies as may be required
3.2   A candidate shall submit only one application. Submission of more than one application
      may lead to rejection.

3.3   Mere submission of the application does not confirm any right on the applicant to be
      called for interview.

3.4   Application should be submitted strictly in the prescribed format only.

3.5   The Competent Authority reserves the right to cancel any application/candidature at its
      discretion and no correspondence in this regard will be entertained from the applicant.

3.6   Wrong declaration /submission of false information or any other action contrary to law
      shall lead to cancellation of the candidature at any stage.

3.7   Age Limit

      Upper age limit of 45 years for the position of Associate (Trade)

4.    Remuneration and Annual Enhancement

4.1   The remuneration will be inclusive of all applicable taxes and no other facility or
      allowance will be allowed. The range of remuneration for the post is as under:

       Position                                    Remuneration per month (Rs.)
       Associate (Trade)                           Rs. 80,000/- to Rs. 1,05,000/-


5.    TA/DA: The Associate (Trade) may be required to travel to any place in India. While on
      tour, TA/DA will be admissible to officials at Pay Level 10 of the Central Government.

6.    Working Hours and Leave:

6.1   Working Hours shall normally be from 9.00 AM to 5.30 PM office time during working
      days including half an hour lunch break in between. However, in exigencies of work, the
      Associate (Trade) may be required to sit late and may be required to attend office/work
      on Saturday/Sunday and other holidays also.

6.2   The Associate (Trade) will be eligible for 20 days leave during the period of one year, on
      pro-rata basis subject to the prior written approval of the controlling officer. Un-availed
      leave cannot be carried forward to the next year. Further, leave up to one month can be
      considered without remuneration with the prior approval of controlling officer.

      However, in rare and exceptional cases like need for professional development, training
      etc., this condition may be relaxed with the approval of Chairman, APEDA subject to
      official exigencies.
6.3   Apart from the above, the female Associate (Trade) may be eligible for maternity leave
      as per the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017 issued by Ministry of Labour&
      Employment vide letter No. S-360 1 7/03/20 15-SS-1 dated 12th April, 2017.
7.    Termination:

7.1   The engagement can be terminated at any time by the Department by giving 30days'
      notice or “pay in lieu” thereof. Similarly, Associate (Trade) may also resign after giving
      notice for a similar period.

7.2   The Department reserves the right to terminate any Associate (Trade) at any stage in
      event of a serious failure to perform the task assigned or of failure to be serve any
      standards of conduct.

 8.   General terms and conditions:

8.1   APEDA may require the Associate (Trade) to submit a Statement of Good Health from a
      recognized physician prior to commencement of work in any offices.

8.2   The engagement as Associate (Trade) is subject to verification of documents related to
      educational qualification and experience. If any information / documents submitted by
      him/her are found false / wrong at any stage, his / her engagement will be terminated
      immediately and appropriate action will be taken against him / her as per rules.

8.3   The Associate (Trade) will be governed by the Official Secrets Act, 1923, as amended
      from time to time and will not disclose to any unauthorized person(s) any
      information/data that come to their notice during the period of their engagement as
      Associate (Trade) in the Department. All such information / records / papers / software
      / emails etc. will be property of APEDA.

8.4   The Associate (Trade) shall not advertise or otherwise make public for the purpose of
      commercial advantage that it has contractual relationship with APEDA. He / she shall
      not, in any manner whatsoever, use the name, emblem or official seal of APEDA or any
      abbreviation of the name of APEDA, in connection with business or otherwise without
      the prior written permission of the competent authority of APEDA.

8.5   The Associate (Trade) shall be expected to conduct himself / herself in accordance with
      the rules and regulations of APEDA. He / she will be expected to demonstrate high
      moral character, integrity, secrecy of office and dedication to work while discharging his
      / her duties. In case his / her services are not found satisfactory or found to be in
      conflict with the interest of the APEDA, his/her services will be terminated forthwith,
      without any notice period or compensation.

8.6   In general, the Associate (Trade) shall neither seek nor accept instructions from any
      authority external to APEDA in connection with the performance of his/her obligations
      under the Contract. The Associate (Trade) shall not take any action in respect of its
      performance of the Contract or otherwise related to its obligations under the contract
      that may adversely affect the interests of APEDA, and the Associate (Trade)shall
      perform its obligations under the contract with the fullest regard to the interest of
      APEDA. The Associate (Trade) warrants that he/she has not and shall not offer any
      direct or indirect benefit arising from or related to the performance of the Contract or
      the award thereof to any representative, official, employee or other agent of APEDA.
      He/she shall comply with all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations bearing upon the
      performance of his/her obligations under the contract. In the performance of the
      Contract, the Associate (Trade) shall comply with the normal standards of conduct.
      Failure to comply with the same is ground for termination of the Associate (Trade) for
      cause.

8.7   Prohibition of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse: In the performance of the Contract, the
      Associate (Trade) shall comply with the "Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
      (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013". The Associate (Trade)
      acknowledges and agrees that any breach of any of the provisions hereof shall
      constitute a breach of an essential term of the contract, and, in addition to any other
      legal rights or remedies available to any person, shall give rise to grounds for
      termination of the contract. In addition, nothing herein shall limit the right of APEDA to
      refer any alleged breach of the foregoing standards of conduct to the relevant national
       authorities for appropriate legal action.

8.8    In the unfortunate event of the death, injury or illness while serving APEDA, the
       Associate (Trade) or the next of kin shall not be entitled to any compensation or
       Appointment.

8.9    The Associate (Trade) will be required to submit a police verification report from their
       concerned police station and also submit a medical-cum-fitness certificate issued by any
       authorized Medical Practitioner prior to engagement.

8.10   The period of engagement would commence from the date of joining at APEDA.

8.11   The period of engagement as Associate (Trade) will not confer any claim or right for
       subsequent engagement / employment with APEDA or any other Government
       Department at a later date.

 9     This issues with the approval of Competent Authority:

       Interested Candidate may submit their signed and typed application in the prescribed
       format (Copy attached) along with their scan CV and self attested copies of the relevant
       documents.

 10.   Last Date of Submission of Application is 24.08.2026.

       The typed and signed application should be sent through email at
       recruitment@apeda.gov.in. It is mandatory to mention the position applied for.

       NOTE: Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted via email for the interview.




                                                       HEAD OF DEPARTMENT (PERSONNEL)
                                                                                APEDA
                  APPLICATION FOR THE POSITION OF ASSOCIATE (TRADE)
                                   (ON CONTRACT)
To

The Head of the Department (Personnel)
APEDA
3rd Floor, 3 Siri Institutional Area August Kranti Marg
Hauz Khas,
New Delhi — 110 016

Position Applying for: Associate (Trade)

                                                                                       Paste
1.      Name in Full (in Block Letter):                                                recent
                                                                                      passport
2.      Father’s / Husband’s Name:
                                                                                        size
3.      Permanent Address:                                                           Photograph
4.      Correspondence Address:

5.      Contact No. & Email-ID:

6.      Date of Birth:
        (Self-Attested copy of proof of age to be attached)

7.      Nationality:

8.      Educational/Professional Qualifications:

          Name of University/Board        Year of Passing      Stream/Subject           % of
                                                                                     marks/CGPA




        (Self-Attested Copy of Essential Educational Qualification to be attached)
 9. Post qualification Work Experience in relevant fields:

       Name &          Period of      Total tenure                              Nature of
      Address of      (from-to in     (in Years and       Designation            work/
      Employer        dd/mm/yy)          months)                             responsibilities




(Self-Attested Copy of experience certificate to be attached)



10.    Languages known with proficiency:




11.    Any other relevant Information:




                                                                    SIGNATURE OF THE CANDIDATE




      Date:


      Place:
