APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                                     I/1678814/2026




                                                         Apply Online: https://apscrecruitment.in
                                            Technical Support email: cceapsc@gmail.com Phone: 1800-572-23-43
                                                                        *****
                                                                                                                              ADVT. NO.12 /2026
       eCF No. 821483/39                                                                                   Dated Guwahati the 4th August/2026

              Assam Public Service Commission invites application from Indian Citizens as defined in Articles 5 to 8 of the
       Constitution of India for the under-mentioned posts under Assam Government in the scale of pay as indicated below and
       carrying usual allowances as admissible under Rules of the Govt. of Assam.

          (1) Name of the Post :- Research Assistant under Labour Welfare Department.
          (2) No of posts:-01 (One ) no.
          (3) Reservation of posts: -

                                    Reserved      Reserved        Reserved       Reserved       Reserved
                      Open                                                                                                          Post         Post
                                       for         for TT &          for            for            for          Grand Total
                     category                                                                                                    Reserved      Reserved
    Name of the                    OBC/MOBC       ADIVASI            SC            STP            STH
                                                                                                                                 for PwBD         for
    Service/Post
                                                                                                                                 &Type of        Ex-
                   Total   RFW     Total   RFW Total    RFW     Total   RFW    Total   RFW    Total    RFW     Total   RFW       Disability   Servicemen


    Research
    Assistant
      under
                    01     00       00      00    00     00      00     00      00      00      00      00      01      00          00            00
     Labour
     Welfare
   Department

          *PwBD – Persons with Benchmark Disabilities; RFW – Reserved for Women.
          *Reservation as per draft advertisement received from Government against total numbers of posts in the cadre.

       4. Scale of Pay: - Pay scale + Grade Pay + Other allowances as admissible to the Assam State Government employees
                 from time to time (per month).


                                           Pay scale                     Grade Pay                     Pay Band
                                 Rs. 22,000/- to Rs. 97,000/-            Rs. 9,400/-                  Pay Band - 3



        BEFORE FILLING UP THE APPLICATION FORM, CANDIDATES MUST NOTE THAT THE REQUIRED
        CERTIFICATES RELATING TO AGE, CASTE AND MINIMUM EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION WILL BE
        FETCHED FROM THE OTR PROFILE. CANDIDATES ARE TO UPDATE THE OTR PROFILE IF ANY
        ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS ARE TO BE UPLOADED IN SUPPORT OF THE ADVERTISED POST.




                                                                                                                                    Page 1 of 6
APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                        I/1678814/2026




       5.Eligibility Criteria :-
                     The candidate must be an Indian Citizen as defined in Article 5 to 8 of the Constitution of India and must be a
            permanent resident of Assam.
                     As a domicile proof of the candidate, he/she must upload a copy of the valid Permanent Resident Certificate
            issued in Assam for educational purpose/Employment Exchange Registration Certificate will be treated as proof of
            residency.

                                                        (Upload necessary documents)

       6. Education Qualification: -
                     A minimum qualification of 2nd class Bachelor Degree in Art/ Science/ Commerce from any recognized
            University.
                       (Upload relevant all semesters/years mark sheets reflecting the subjects and the final pass certificate)

       7. Preferable Experience:-
                   A. Diploma in Computer Application.
                   B. Experience in dealing with subjects of Labour Laws in the Government Department/ Organization.
                                                          Or
                   C. Degree or Diploma in Labour Laws/Social Works.
                   (Upload relevant all semesters/years mark sheets reflecting the subjects and the final pass certificate)
       8. Age:
                   The candidates should not be less than 21 years of age and not more than 38years of age as on 01-01-2026.
            The upper age limit is relaxable:
                    (i) By 5 years for SC/ST candidates, i.e. upto 43 years.
                    (ii) By 3 years for OBC/MOBC candidates i.e. upto 41 years as per Govt. Notification No. ABP.6/2016/9 dated
                          Dispur the 25thApril, 2018.
                    (iii) Persons with benchmark disability (PwBD)10 years irrespective of SC/ST/OBC and UR Category of
                          candidates as per Govt. Memorandum No. ABP 144/95/121 dated Dispur the 28thOctober, 2015.
                     The age limit of the candidates will be calculated on the basis of the Class-X/ Class-XII Examination Admit
            Card/Pass Certificate/ Marksheet issued by a recognized Central/State Board/Council where Age/Date of Birth (DOB)
            is clearly reflected.
                       No other document shall be accepted in lieu of the above mentioned documents for age proof.

                                                    (Upload relevant documents)
       8. For PwBD Category Candidate:
                    To be eligible for consideration under PwBD category, a candidate must possess Benchmark Disability of 40%
           or more and must produce necessary certificate issued by the competent authority.
           NB: Since there is no post reserved for PwBD candidates, they have to compete with other candidates without any
                PwBD reservation.
                                                      (Upload relevant documents)
       9. For Government Employees of the state of Assam:
                      Candidates, already in regular Government service, whether in permanent or temporary capacity other than
            casual/ad-hoc/daily wages/hourly paid/contract basis, in order to prove their employment, must upload a certificate
            against the applied post, issued by the competent authority under which he/she is working.
                      However, candidates, seeking pay protection, continuation in service etc., must upload ‘NO
            OBJECTIONCERTIFICATE (NOC)’against the applied post, issued by the competent authority under which
            he/she is working.
                                                      (Upload relevant documents)

                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 6
APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                            I/1678814/2026




        10. The Small Family Norms :-
                     As per Govt. notification No. ABP.69/2019/17, dated Dispur, the 6th November/2019, candidates have to submit
           a declaration regarding “The Small Family Norms” in Form - A at the time of applying for the post.
                                                     (Upload necessary documents)

                      The advertisement has been issued as per draft advertisement furnished by the Government.
            ➢       (i) STARTING DATE FOR ONLINE APPLICATION :- 11-08-2026
                   (ii) CLOSING DATE FOR ONLINE APPLICATION :- 10-09-2026
                   (iii) LAST DATE FOR PAYMENT OF APPLICATION FEE:- 12-09-2026

       APPLICATION FEES: Under the Digital India initiative by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY),
       Government of India, APSC has decided to launch its Online Recruitment portal with the help of CSC-SPV, a MeitY approved
       organization, which will charge a processing fee, etc of Rs.47.20/- from each candidate. The Application Fee is as per Govt.
       Notification No. FEG.32/2016/8-A dated Dispur the 28th October, 2016 communicated vide letter No.ABP.60/2014/11 dated
       2nd February 2018 and Gazette Notification No. LGL.41/2024/43 dated 25th October, 2024.

                                                                                  Processing Fee etc.
                                                       Application fee                                         Total Amount (Rs)
          Sl. No             Category                                            Charged by CSC-SPV
                                                            (Rs)
                                                                                         (Rs)
            1.                General                        250                          47.20                      297.20

            2.              OBC/MOBC                         150                          47.20                      197.20

            3.           SC/ST/BPL/PwBD                      NIL                          47.20                       47.20

                    (i) To avail application fees relaxation prescribed for SC/ST/OBC/MOBC/BPL, candidates must
                          produce certificate of the claimed category issued by competent authority.
                    (ii) Applications without the prescribed fee would not be considered and summarily rejected.
                          No representation against such rejection would be entertained.
                    (iii) Fees once paid shall not be refunded under any circumstances nor can the fees be held in
                          reserved for any other examination or selection.

           ➢ HOW TO APPLY
           1. Applicants are required to apply online through the APSC Recruitment website https://apscrecruitment.in. No
              other means/mode of application will be accepted.
           2. Applicants who have not yet registered in the APSC Online Recruitment Portal must first visit the APSC recruitment
              website https://apscrecruitment.in, click on the ‘Register Here’ link, and complete the One Time Registration
              (OTR) process by providing the required basic details.
           3. Applicants are advised to register with a valid and active e-mail address and mobile number.
           4. After registration, applicants should log in using their registered e-mail/mobile number and password.
           5. After login, applicants need to provide the required registration details as asked in the form.
           6. Applicants must carefully read the eligibility criteria and other relevant details before applying. Mandatory fields are
              marked with an asterisk (*).
           7. Applicants must upload the required documents/certificates (e.g. Date of Birth, Educational Qualifications,
              caste/category etc.) in PDF format, ensuring that:
                   a) File size does not exceed 4 MB,
                   b) The file is legible in print,
                   c) Scanning is done at 200 dpi in greyscale (recommended).
           8. Applicants must upload their recent Photograph (size: 50 KB – 200 KB, not older than 3 months) and Signature
              (size: 50 KB – 200 KB).
           9. Uploaded documents will be verified at later stages of the recruitment process.
                                                                                                                           Page 3 of 6
APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                            I/1678814/2026




            10. Applicants should fill all details carefully and tick the declaration checkbox to enable the Preview option before final
                submission.
            11. No editing of the application will be allowed after final submission. Applicants must therefore ensure all details and
                uploads are correct.
            12. Before submission, applicants should check uploaded documents (educational qualification, age proof, caste
                certificate, etc.) using the Preview option to confirm that the documents are clear and legible.
            13. After previewing, applicants may either click ‘Proceed to Pay’ to continue or ‘Cancel’ to make necessary
                corrections.
            14. On completion of the form, applicants must pay the prescribed fee/charges, as applicable.
            15. Fee once paid will not be refunded.
            16. In case of payment failure/pending, applicants should click ‘Check Status’ to verify payment with the bank/GRAS. In
                instances of double debit i.e. amount debited more than once for the same transaction, bank will automatically
                refund the fee within 5-7 working days.
            17. Upon successful submission, an auto-generated confirmation e-mail/SMS will be sent to the registered e-mail
                ID/Mobile No.
            18. Applications will not be considered valid unless the fee payment is completed.
            19. Applicants may also fill their form through Common Service Centres (CSCs). Those without debit card/Internet
                banking facilities may visit the nearest CSC.
            20. After final submission, applicants must take a print-out of the submitted Online Application Form and retain the hard
                copy for future reference.
            21. Applicants are advised to submit their Online Application well in advance, without waiting for the closing date.
            22. For Payment related queries, contact GRAS Helpdesk at 1800-102-1686 (10:00 AM – 6:00 PM on all working
                days). For bank-related issues, applicants should contact their respective banks.
            23. For any other issues related to the Online Application Form, contact:
                     a) E-mail: cceapsc@gmail.com
                     b) Helpline No.: 1800-572-23-43 (10:00 AM – 5:00 PM on all working days).


       ➢ POINTS TO NOTE:

            1. The candidates before applying for the post(s)/service(s) should ensure that they fulfill all the eligibility conditions.
               Their admission at all the stages of selection in which they are admitted by the Commission will be purely
               provisional and under scrutiny, subject to their satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions. If on
               verification at any time or any stage before or after the Screening Examination or Written Examination and
               Interview Test, it is found that they do not fulfill any of the eligibility conditions; their candidature for the
               post(s)/service(s) will be cancelled by the Commission.
            2. It is for the candidates themselves to see whether they satisfy the prescribed physical requirement (physical
               standard) and whether he/she is eligible to apply where Examination of physical standard is conducted by the State
               Govt. before making any appointment.
            3. No request for withdrawal of candidature received from a candidate after he/she has submitted his/her application
               will be entertained under any circumstances.
            4. At any stage of the selection process no candidate shall be allowed to change his/her category (of caste etc)/sub-
               category/sub-categories as claimed by him/her in the original application form/online application form submitted to
               the Commission.
            5. The candidates who furnish wrong, erroneous or incorrect information in their application form may be disqualified
               from appearing for any post advertised by the Commission up to a period to be specified by the Commission.
            6. In case of detection of any false declaration / statement made by any applicant, his/her application will be rejected
               and will also be penalized as per prevailing Rules/Law. If in any case, submission of false material facts with a view
               to hoodwinking the Commission is detected even after the recommendation is made, the Commission may refer the
               matter to Government for taking necessary action.


                                                                                                                            Page 4 of 6
APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                           I/1678814/2026




            7. The candidates shall have to produce identity proof like Pan Card, Driving Licence, Passport, Current ID card issued
                by the educational institutions, Voter ID Card, Aadhar Card (wherever applicable) at the time of Screening/Written
                test and Viva- Voice/ Interview.
            8. The date for determining the eligibility of all candidates in every respect shall be the closing date for submitting the
                Online Recruitment Application on the website https://apscrecruitment.in. unless specifically mentioned in the
                recruitment advertisement.
            9. Candidates must, if required, attend a personal interview/VIVA-VOCE at a specific place, as may be fixed by the
                Commission. The Commission does not defray the traveling or other expenses of candidates summoned for
                interview.
            10. Candidates must be in sound bodily health. They must, if selected be prepared to undergo such medical
                examination and satisfy such medical authority as Government may require.
            11. Candidates will be informed of the final result in due course through APSC website/News paper and any interim
                enquiries about the result are therefore, unnecessary and will not be attended to. The Commission does not enter
                into correspondence with the candidates about reasons for their non selection for interview/appointment.
            12. Canvassing in any form will disqualify a candidate.


            ➢     DOCUMENTS/CERTIFICATES TO BE PRODUCED AT THE TIME OF INTERVIEW.

            The following Original Documents/Certificates along with Self-attested copies and other items specified in the Intimation
            Letter/Admit Card for interview are to be produced at the time of interview, failing which the candidate would not be
            allowed to appear in the Interview: -
            a) Class-X/Class-XII Examination Admit Card/Pass Certificate/ Marksheet issued by Central/State Board clearly
               indicating Date of Birth in support of their claim of age.
            b) Certificates & Mark sheets of all examinations from HSLC onwards up to the level of qualifying examination.
            c) Experience Certificate (Whenever necessary)
            d) Caste certificate issued by Govt. of Assam for candidate seeking reservation as SC/ST/OBC/MOBC, from the
               competent authority indicating clearly the candidate’s Caste, the Act/Order under which the Caste is recognized as
               SC/ST/OBC/MOBC and the village/town the candidate is ordinarily a resident of.
            e) BPL certificate issued by Govt. of Assam. (Wherever necessary).
            f) The candidates will have to submit Declaration Form-A, related to the Assam Public Services (Application of
               Small Family norms in Direct Recruitment) Rules, 2019 published vide Notification No:ABP.69/2019/17 dated
               Dispur, the 6th November/2019 which may be downloaded from the official website of APSC www.apsc.nic.in
               (Forms & Downloads Section)
            g) Documentary support for any other claim(s) made.

             NOTE I: Date of birth mentioned in Online Recruitment Application is final. No subsequent request for change of date of
             birth will be considered or granted. No document other than the Class X/Class XII Board Examination Admit Card/Pass
             Certificate/Marksheet, in which the date of birth is properly recorded, will be accepted by the Commission for
             determination of age.

             NOTE II: Candidates are warned that they should not furnish any particulars that are false or suppress any material
             information in filling up the application form. Candidates are also warned that they should in no case correct or alter or
             otherwise tamper with any entry in a document or its attested/certified copy submitted by them nor should they submit a
             tampered/fabricated document. If there is any inaccuracy or any discrepancy between two or more such documents or
             their attested/certified copies, an explanation regarding this discrepancy should be submitted.

             NOTE III: Candidates must ensure that they upload all necessary documents before final submission. No
             documents will be accepted after final submission of application. No other request for document submission
             will be entertained once the online application process is over.



                                                                                                                           Page 5 of 6
APSC-DRC/12/2026-DIR-APSC-Assam Public Service Commission                                                                       I/1678814/2026




            ➢ DIRECT RECRUITMENT:
                The selection procedure will be notified later on followed by issuing corrigendum/addendum, if
       required. The Commission will decide the provision for selection in respect of any post/posts or service/ services
       considering the status, cadre and grade or the number of applications received for the advertised post/posts or
       service/ services.

               The Commission will also decide to conduct examination/test etc. zone wise, depending upon the numbers
       of candidates against the districts shown below:

                Sl No.       Name of Zones                             Districts covered under the Zones
                   1             Silchar          Hailakandi, Sribhumi & Cachar

                   2              Jorhat          Golaghat, Dibrugarh, Jorhat, Majuli, Charaideo, Sivasagar &Tinsukia

                   3             Nagaon           DimaHasao, Hojai, Nagaon, Morigaon, KarbiAnglong & West KarbiAnglong

                   4             Tezpur           Biswanath, Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur&Udalguri

                   5            Kokrajhar         Bongaigaon, Chirang, Dhubri, Goalpara, Kokrajhar& South Salmara

                   6            Guwahati          Barpeta, Baksa, Kamrup, Kamrup (Metro), Nalbari, Darrang, Bajali&Tamulpur.

              NB: The Commission has the discretion to reduce or increase the number of zones depending upon the
       number of candidates.




                                                                                                Deputy Secretary
                                                                                        Assam Public Service Commission
                                                                                       Jawaharnagar, Khanapara, Guwahati-22

       Memo eCF No. 821483/39- A                                                           Dated Guwahati the 4th August/2026
       Copy forwarded to:

            1. P.S to the Hon’ble Chairperson, APSC.
            2. Principal Controller of Examinations, APSC.
            3. Computer Section, APSC for uploading in APSC’s website.
            4. Order File.




                                                                                                (Digitally Signed)
                                                                                                 Deputy Secretary
                                                                                          Assam Public Service Commission
                                                                                        Jawaharnagar, Khanapara, Guwahati-22




                                                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
