                             BHARAT ELECTRONICS LIMITED
                            Jalahalli Post, Bengaluru - 560013
              (A Government of India Enterprise under the Ministry of Defence)

Advertisement No. BGEM/2627/09/01                    Date of Release of Advertisement: 09.09.2026

Bharat Electronics Limited, a Navratna Company and India’s premier Professional Electronics
company under the Ministry of Defence, requires professionals for the post of Senior
Engineer on Fixed Term Basis (for a period of 5 years) for its Export Manufacturing - SBU in
Bangalore Complex.

                                                                                 Upper age Experience
 Post                     No of                   Post /                                               Location of
           Discipline               Domain                 Reservation Pay Scale limit as on   as on
 Code                     Post                    Grade                                                  Posting
                                                                                 01.08.2026 01.08.2026
                                  Database and
                                                                                             04 Years
EMCS01 Computer Science    5        Software
                                                                                               Post
                                  Development
                                                               UR - 5                       Qualificatio
                                   Embedded       Senior                  Rs 50000 -
                                                            OBC (NCL) - 4                        n
EMEC02     Electronics     5         System      Engineer                  3% - Rs 35 Years              Bangalore
                                                               SC - 2                       Experience
                                  Development     / E - III                 160000
                                                               ST - 1                         in the
                                    3D Visual
                                                                                             relevant
EMCS03 Computer Science    2        Software
                                                                                               field
                                  Development

PAY & ALLOWANCES: Selected candidates will be inducted in the pay scale of Rs 50000 - 3%
- Rs 160000. In addition to Basic Pay, other allowance like Dearness Allowance, House Rent
Allowance, Conveyance Allowance, Perquisites at the rate of 35% on annual basic pay,
Performance related Pay, reimbursement of medical expenses, Group Insurance, PF,
Pension, Gratuity(if applicable) etc. as per Company rules will be a part of remuneration
package.

TENURE OF ENGAGEMENT FOR FIXED TERM ENGINEER:
The tenure of engagement shall be for a period of 05 years, extendable by 02 years, the
tenure of engagement shall be reviewed for extension solely based on individual
performance and project requirements on completion of 05 years.

UPPER AGE LIMIT:
          Category                                    Upper Age Limit as on 01.08.2026
             UR                                                   35 Years

RELAXATION OF UPPER AGE LIMIT:
 S No                         Category                                                  Age Relexation
   1  Other Backward Classes (Non-Creamy Layer)                                            3 Years
   2  Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe                                                      5 Years
      Persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD) having minimum
   3                                                                                        10 Years
      40% disability
                                                                                     As per Government
  4      Ex - Servicemen
                                                                                         guidelines

The upper age limit specified is applicable to General Category candidates. The EWS / Caste
/ Disability Certificate should be strictly in the format available on the BEL website failing

                                                                                                    Page 1 of 9
which, candidates will be considered under General category, provided they are otherwise
meeting all criteria stipulated for General Candidates.

For Candidates belonging to Persons with Disability (PwBD) category having minimum 40%
disability will get 10 (ten) years relaxation in addition to the relaxation applicable to
SC/ST/OBC(NCL) mentioned above. Relaxation will be extended as per Government
guidelines in respect of Ex - Servicemen.

EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION:
Full Time B E / B Tech / BSc Engineering (4 Years Course) from AICTE approved Colleges /
Institutions or a recognized University.

              Electronics/ Electronics & Communication/ Electronics & Telecommunication/
Electronics   Telecommunication/ Communication / Electronics & Instrumentation/ Electrical &
              Electronics
 Computer Computer Science / Computer Science & Engineering / Computer Science
  Science     Engineering / Information Technology/ Information Science & Engineering
Minimum Percentage of Marks in BE / B Tech / BSc Engineering (4 Years Course)
General / OBC / EWS                           60 %
SC / ST / PwBD                                50 %
Method of conversion of CGPA to percentage has to be indicated in the application form
Applicants whose discipline/ specialisation mentioned in their Degree Certificates do not tally
with the discipline/ specialisation prescribed in the advertisement will not be considered for
selections.

POST QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCE (as on 01.08.2026):
Should have minimum 04 Years of post qualification experience. Candidates should have
worked in / possess expertise in the areas specified below.

A. DATABASE & SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT:

Role : Database Admin
Experience & Knowledge in
    Should possess Microsoft SQL Certification
    Database Architecture Design
    Database Objects Management and Maintenance
    ETL Development Processes
    Dashboard Development
    Data Analysis Strategies Data Governance
    Performance Optimization and Tuning
    Business Intelligence Predictive Analytics
    Statistical Analysis Methods
    Data Visualization
    MSSQL, ORACLE SQL, Postgresql and PL/SQL development
    HTML and CSS.

Role : Full Stack Java Developer
Experience & Knowledge in
    Java Developer with React UI knowledge for both Web Based Application and
        Standalone application

                                                                                 Page 2 of 9
      Java Web based Applications
      Interface Programming with various hardware such as serial port, CROs, verniers, etc
      DTOs, database handling and programming.
      Predictions and data analysing methodologies
      APIs integration with REACT UI
      Version control
      Full Stack Development

Role : REACT UI Developer
Experience & Knowledge in
    React UI based Web based Applications
    Plugins Interface Programming with various hardware such as serial port, etc
    Java API integration.
    UI and Dashboard development
    Version control
    C# programming

B. EMBEDDED SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT:

Role : Medical Electronics System Development
Experience & Knowledge in
    Digital / Analog circuit designs, Development, testing and Integration.
    Embedded Software and firmware development
    Embedded control systems hardware and software development for 32bit or high
       speed micro controller (Communication protocols like UART, SPI, I2C, RS232, RS485,
       Ethernet)
    Medical Electronics devices Design, development, qualification and documentation
    Medical standards ISO 13485, IEC60601-1, IEC 60601-1-2, CDSCO requirements, FDA,
       CE and regulatory requirements
    EMI/EMC tests and design for its compliance.
    Power supply designs: DC- DC converters (Buck/Boost/LDOs).
    Testing, Integration, Qualification, Clinical trials to ensure product safety and efficacy
    Coordination with Cross functional teams

Roles: Embedded System Development & Design For EVM Related Products
Experience & Knowledge in
    Hardware design and development of 32 bit or above high-speed micro-
       controllers/microprocessors-based designs
    Comprehension of Embedded Hardware Architectures and peripherals
    Familiarity with hardware testing tools and methodologies
    Understanding of sensor technologies, actuators, and relay control circuits
    Problem-solving and circuit troubleshooting skills
    High-speed embedded design
    Various protocols including RS232, RS485, SPI, USB, CAN, ZigBee, Wi-Fi, BLE
    High speed microcontroller/microprocessor Hardware platforms from different
       OEMs
    Embedded C and/or Python for microcontroller programming.
    Manufacturing Processes, International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) standards
       applicable for EMI/EMC and ESS
    Vibration, bump, shock and drop test

                                                                                     Page 3 of 9
      Analog and power supply design and development
      Generation of schematics, High-speed PCB Layout design
      Embedded Firmware development
      Working with Arduino, Raspberry Pi or similar development boards.
      Design documentation and generation of production documents Product
       qualification

C. 3D VISUAL SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT:

Roles: 3D Visual Software Developer
Experience & Knowledge in
    Unity3D and/or Unreal Engine with C# scripting
    Photoshop
    Illustrator
    After Effects and Exposure to Virtual Reality environment
    3D Programming

Note 1: Teaching/Academic/Apprenticeship/ Research work will not be considered as
relevant post qualification industrial experience, experience in banking and financial
institutions, non-profit organisations and internship placements which are a part of
academic curriculum will not be considered as experience. Work experience prior to
completion of BE/B.Tech/ BSc Engineering (4 Years Course) will also not qualify as post
qualification experience. Candidates possessing Industrial experience only need to apply.

Note 2: The Trainee Engineers, Project Engineers, Fixed Term Engineers who are currently
working in BEL prior intimation shall be given to the respective HR Department of the
Unit/SBU/CSG where the engineer is working and the same shall be produced at the time of
written test / interview. Lateral application for the same post is not permitted i.e., Fixed
Term Engineers in E-III Grade who are presently working in any of the Unit of BEL is not
eligible to apply. If applied, the application will be summarily rejected without assigning any
reasons.

Note 3: The candidates should be willing to travel extensively across the country based on
the project requirement. Candidates may be posted anywhere in India at any point of time.
Hence, candidates who are desirous of applying should be willing to relocate based on the
project requirement across India.

METHOD OF SELECTION:
1. The candidates meeting the qualifying criteria and whose online applications have been
   accepted will be provisionally shortlisted for the Written Test.

2. Candidates who meet the qualifying criteria and whose online applications are accepted
   will be sent an SMS and e-mail. They are required to log on to the BEL website and enter
   their credentials to access and download their Call Letter for Written Test.

3. Candidates are required to print the call letter and comply with the instructions
   indicated therein. Please note that call letters will not be sent through e-mail or through
   conventional mail.




                                                                                     Page 4 of 9
4. Selection will be through a Written Test for candidates who meet the eligibility criteria
   followed by an Interview, only for those candidates who qualify in the Written Test.
   Candidates will be shortlisted for interview in the order of merit in the ratio 1:7.

5. The assessment weightage will be 85% and 15% for written test and Interview
   respectively. The eligible candidates will be required to appear for written test for 85
   marks.

6. Obtaining minimum qualifying marks in the written test does not confer any right or
   claim by the candidate for being shortlisted for the interview, as the same is related to
   number of positions, reservation position, marks scored and subject to meeting the
   eligibility criteria. Candidates passing the written test will be shortlisted for Personal
   Interview based on the performance in the written test in the ratio of 1:7. The results of
   the written test will be made available in our website www.bel-india.in. Candidates are
   advised to visit the website for updates.

7. The date of written test and interview shall be intimated by SMS and E Mail to the
   shortlisted candidates.

8. The Written Test will be at Bengaluru only.

HOW TO APPLY:
1. Candidates are advised to carefully read the full advertisement for details of eligibility
   criteria and selection modalities before applying.

2. Candidates who are fulfilling the eligibility criteria and desirous of applying for the above
   posts are required to apply online through the link

        https://jobapply.in/BEL2026JALAHALLIEXPORT

   provided against the advertisement Recruitment of Senior Engineers (E-III) for Export
   Manufacturing – SBU.

3. Online Link for Registration will be available from 09.09.2026 to 29.09.2026. The
   Candidates who have NOT registered online will not be allowed to appear for the
   selection process

  S No                                       Activity                                  Date
          Commencement of On - Line registration of application by
    1                                                                               09.09.2026
          candidates
          Last date for On - Line registration & submission of application by
    2                                                                               29.09.2026
          candidates

4. Candidates are required to fill the necessary fields in the online application form by
   accessing the URL Link provided on the website, pay the requisite fees (if applicable) and
   submit the application form. After completing the online registration, the candidates are
   required to print the filled in application form.

5. Only one application should be submitted by a candidate for any particular post. In case
   of multiple applications for one post by any candidate only the latest valid (completed)

                                                                                      Page 5 of 9
   application of that candidate will be considered and retained as final application and the
   Application Fee & other charges paid for the other multiple application(s) will stand
   forfeited.

6. Candidates are required to read all the instructions given in the advertisement and enter
   all information correctly in the online application forms and verify the same before
   submission, as changes shall not be permitted after submission.

7. Kindly note that the Written Test / Interview for all the job codes will be conducted on
   the same day. Therefore candidates are requested to choose to apply only for one job
   code.

PAYMENT OF APPLICATION FEE:
1. General / EWS / OBC candidates are required to remit an amount of Rs. 472/ (Rs 400 +
   18% GST) towards application fee through SBI Collect (through online mode). SC/ ST /
   PWD and Ex Servicemen candidates are exempted from payment of application fee.
2. Candidates are requested to read the details and screenshots for making the payment
   which is provided in the advertisement. Candidates may make the payment by clicking
   on the link provided in the advertisement.

    https://www.onlinesbi.sbi/sbicollect/icollecthome.htm?corpID=14842

3. Candidates have to mention the “SBI Collect Reference Number.” generated after
   making payment, in the Application Form.
4. Candidates may go through all instructions and eligibility criteria carefully before
   remitting Application Fee and submitting the application. Fee once paid will not be
   refunded by the Company / Bank to candidates.
5. Candidates may take note that no cheque, DD or cash will be accepted towards payment
   of application fee.
6. While paying application fees through SBI collect, candidates should ensure that they
   mention the same mobile number and email id in SBI collect as has been mentioned by
   them in the application form.

INSTRUCTION FOR MAKING PAYMENT:
1. Go to www.onlinesbi.com and select:- State Bank Collect
2. Accept Terms and Conditions and click on “Proceed”
3. Select state of Corporation/ Institution: - All India
4. Select type of Corporation/ Institution: - PSU – Public Sector Undertaking and Click on
   “Go” option.
5. Select PSU - Public Sector Undertaking: - Bharat Electronics Limited and Click on
   “Submit” button.
6. Select Payment category: - “Recruitment for the Post of Senior Engineer - E- III - Fixed
   Term Engineer For Export Manufacturing - SBU”
7. Complete the payment as explained above
8. Save & take a print / screenshot of the payment receipt and attach it with the
   application form

DOCUMENTS TO BE UPLOADED BY CANDIDATES WHILE SUBMITTING ONLINE
APPLICATION:
1. Recent colour passport size photograph.
2. SSLC / SSC / 10th Standard marks card (as proof of Date of Birth)

                                                                                   Page 6 of 9
3. Final Consolidated Degree Marks Sheet
4. Final Degree / Provisional Degree certificate of relevant qualification
5. Proof of norms for SGPA/CGPA/DGPA/OGPA or letter grade/document for
    percentage/class issued by university/Institution/College.
6. Caste/Tribe/Community/Disability/Economic Weaker Section status Certificate in case of
    candidates belonging to SC/ST/OBC/PwBD/EWS respectively. Candidates claiming
    reservation under any of the above categories are required to submit the certificate in
    the prescribed format. The formats of various certificates are provided as link to the
    advertisement. Candidates belonging to OBC category should produce the Certificate
    issued on or after 01.09.2025 and for EWS Certificate should be issued for the year
    2025-26 on or after 01.06.2025.
7. For persons with Benchmark Disability (PwBD): Disability should not be less than 40% for
    the PwBD candidates. A person, who wants to avail the benefit of relaxation, will have to
    submit a Disability Certificate issued by a Competent Authority.
8. Facility of Scribe will be permitted to Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) as
    defined under Section 2(r) of the RPwD Act 2016. Candidates have to arrange scribes of
    their own at their own expenses.
9. The provision of scribe will be permitted only on production of certificate from the Chief
    Medical Officer / Civil Surgeon / Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care
    Institution to the effect that the person concerned has physical limitation to write and scribe
    is essential to appear for Written Test on his/her behalf. Certificate should be in the format
    available on the BEL website.
10. The qualification of the scribe intended to be used by the candidate should be one step
    below the qualification of the candidate taking examination and the candidate should
    submit details of the scribe as per proforma available on the BEL website which is to be
    attested by a Gazetted officer. The candidate is required to carry/produce the
    signed/attested proforma, while appearing for the written test.
11. Post-qualification experience certificate(s) from previous / current employer. Where
    current employment certificate is not produced the offer of current employment, last
    three months payslip and employee ID proof should be compulsorily attached
12. Candidates if working in PSUs / Govt. organizations should compulsorily submit ‘No
    Objection Certificate’ at the time of interview
13. Identity Proof (Aaadhar card / PAN Card/ Driving License / Voter ID)
14. A detailed write up on the post qualification experience specifying job role /
    responsibilities and areas worked in
15. SBI Challan for having remitted the application fee

Candidates are required to enter all information correctly in the application form as changes
shall not be permitted after submission of the application form.

Application sent through E-Mail / any other channel will not be considered.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Only Indian Nationals are eligible to apply.



                                                                                         Page 7 of 9
2. The number of posts indicated above may increase or decrease depending upon the
    Company’s actual requirement at the time of selection .
3. Candidate should possess Experience certificates / Documents issued by the previous
    and present employer clearly indicating period of employment and post held.
4. The Cutoff date for deciding the maximum permissible Age and Post Qualification
    Experience is 01.08.2026. In order to compute post qualification, work experience, the
    period of work experience starting from the month immediately succeeding the month
    of final examination in which candidate acquire the essential educational qualification
    shall be considered.
5. Mere applying does not guarantee the adequacy of the candidature for being considered
    for the selection process.
6. The decision of the Selection Committee with respect to professional post-qualification
    experience will be final.
7. Work experience indicated without supporting documents will not be considered and is
    liable to be rejected / cancelled without any prior intimation.
8. Applicants should have sound health. No relaxation in health standard is allowed.
    Appointment of selected candidates will be subject to submitting medical fitness
    certificate from a Medical Officer not below the rank of Civil Surgeon / Assistant Surgeon
    at the time of joining.
9. Request for change of mailing address / E-mail ID / Category / Degree as declared in the
    application form will not be entertained.
10. Candidates employed in Central / State Government department, Central / State PSUs or
    Semi-Government Organization must produce No Objection Certificate (NOC) at the
    time of Interview. In case, the candidate fails to produce NOC from his / her present
    employer at the time of Interview, his / her candidature will not be entertained.
11. Candidates are required to possess at least one valid e-mail id and mobile number,
    which is to be entered in the application form.
12. Information pertaining to written test for the posts will be sent by e-mail to the email ID
    / mobile number furnished by the candidates in the application.
13. The Company shall not be responsible for any loss of email sent due to invalid / wrong
    email ID or mobile number provided by the candidate.
14. All future correspondence with candidates shall be done through e-mail / SMS only. BEL
    will not be responsible for bouncing of any e-mail / messages sent to the candidate.
15. The E-mail ID and Mobile Number entered by the candidate in his/her Online Application
    Form must remain valid for at least next one year from the date of filling application.
16. Application Number, password and all other important communication will be sent on
    the same registered e-mail ID & Mobile No. (Please ensure that email sent to the
    mailbox of registered E-mail ID is not redirected to junk/Spam Folder).
17. There will be no separate communication to any candidates on their non-selection at
    any stage. There is no provision for re-checking/re-evaluation of Answer Sheets.
18. Canvassing in any form will result in disqualification.
19. In the event any applicant has litigated with his/ her employer in the past the same
    should be clearly mentioned in brief.
20. Merely fulfilling the minimum requirement of qualification and experience will not vest
    any right on the candidates to be called for the Interview/Written Test. BEL’s decision
    shall be final in this regard.
21. BEL reserves the right to debar/disqualify any candidate at any stage of the selection
    process for any reason whatsoever




                                                                                     Page 8 of 9
22. BEL reserves the right to cancel / restrict / enlarge / modify or alter the recruitment or
    selection process, if need so arises, without issuing any further notice or assigning any
    reason thereafter.
23. Short listing of candidates will be carried out purely based on the information declared
    by candidates in the application form. If at any further stage of recruitment / selection
    process or after joining, it is found that candidates have declared false information w.r.t.
    their credentials, BEL reserves the right to debar / reject them at any stage of selection.
24. The candidature is also liable for rejection at any stage if BEL comes across any
    evidence/knowledge that the qualification, experience and any other particulars
    indicated in the application / other forms / formats are not recognized / false /
    misleading and/or amounts to suppression of information/particulars which should have
    been brought to the notice of BEL.
25. Travelling Allowance (TA): Out station candidates called for interview will be reimbursed
    to & fro rail fare of AC Chair Car / III Tier AC class by shortest route either from your
    correspondence address or from actual place of departure whichever is less, on
    production of tickets/supporting documentary proofs in respect of onward journey.
26. Any revision, clarification, addendum, corrigendum, time extension etc. to the above
    advertisement will be hosted on “Careers” section of BEL website: www.bel-india.in only
    and no separate notification shall be issued in the press. Candidates are requested to
    visit the website regularly to keep themselves updated.
27. The advertisement is made available in bilingual (English and Hindi). In case of any
    misinterpretation of the advertisement, the English version available in BEL website is to
    be referred and that is final.
28. Any resulting dispute arising out of this advertisement including the recruitment process
    shall be subject to the sole jurisdiction of the Courts situated at Bengaluru.

BEL has a robust and transparent recruitment process where the selection criteria is purely
based on merit of the candidate. BEL does not demand or charge any fee or request for
money deposited at any stage of the recruitment process other than the application fee
mentioned in this advertisement. We urge job seekers not to be misled by any
communication made by fraudsters purporting to be representatives of our company and
demanding payment in lieu of employment in BEL. The company is not liable for any loss
that may ensue from such fraudulent actions.

BEL reserves its right to take legal action including criminal action against such fraudsters.

For Further details or clarification, the candidates may mail us to hrem@bel.co.in
Telephone Number: 080 - 22197716
Please note that no other form / mode of communication will be entertained.

                                                                                        Deputy General Manager
                                                                                                  Human Resources
                                                                                    Export Manufacturing - SBU
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                                                                                             Page 9 of 9
