     DNS -Regional Institute of Cooperative Management
                  Shastri Nagar, Patna, Bihar-800023
     (A Unit of National Council of Co-operative Training, New Delhi)
         (Under Ministry of Cooperation, Government of India)



           Appointment of Lecturer on Contract on Contract
1.   Name of the Post               Lecturer
2.   Initial Period                 3 (Three) Years
                                    *Performance will be assessed on yearly basis.
                                    Contract for a normal period of three years which
                                    may be extended for a maximum period of five
                                    years, subject to be condition of satisfactory
                                    performance and / or requirement of the institute.
3.   Number of Posts Subject Wise   Agricultural Economics-1
                                    Finance & Accounting-1
                                    M.B.A (Agribusiness) -2
                                    M.B.A (Operation, Supply Chain & Logistic)-1
                                    Note: Above post may be changed as per the
                                    requirement of the institute.
4.   Monthly Remuneration           Rs. 40000/- to 90000/-
     ranges of the Consolidated     CTC-based, negotiable as per market standards.
     (Remuneration)                 (Remuneration / Pay Compensation will not be a
                                    limiting factor for deserving candidates and can be
                                    negotiated in consideration to the last/Current
                                    CTC drawn.
5.   Age Limit                      Not exceeding 38 Years
6.   Educational and other          Essential Educational Qualification
     qualifications                 i. Master’s Degree with minimum 55% marks in
                                         Economics, Agriculture, Commerce, and
                                         Business Administration.
                                    ii. NET Qualified for Assistant Professor/ Ph.D.*
                                    *Those candidates holding a Ph.D. degree awarded in
                                    accordance with the UGC Regulations 2009 or 2016 and
                                    candidates registered for Ph.D programme prior to 11-07-
                                    2009 shall be exempted from the requirement of NET for
                                    recruitment as per UGC notification dated 18-07-2018.
                                    Experience:
                                    Teaching experience in the relevant field.
                                    Preferable: MBA/PGDBM




                                    Page 1 of 2
7.   Selection / Appointment         Selection / appointment will be made on the basis
     Procedures                      of interview/ Class Demonstration conducted
                                     before a selection committee.
8.   Termination of service and          i. In case of the preference of the person so
     leaves.                                appointed is found unsatisfactory, his/her
                                            services will be terminated any time after
                                            giving one month's notice without giving any
                                            reason thereof or pay in lieu thereof. Such
                                            person may also leave the contractual
                                            appointment after giving one month's notice
                                            or pay in lieu thereof if so desires.
                                        ii. Leave of absence: The person appointed on
                                            contract basis will be eligible for 15 days
                                            leave in a calendar year. It cannot be carry
                                            forward to next calendar year. Any other
                                            leave for any purpose will be considered as
                                            leave without pay.
                                      iii. Persons so appointed on contract basis will
                                            not be eligible for any allowance except
                                            consolidated monthly remuneration. He/She
                                            will not claim terminal benefit on
                                            termination of his contractual appointment.
                                       iv. The person appointed will come under the
                                            ambit of conduct rules as applicable in NCCT,
                                            New Delhi.
                                        v. The person so appointed will require to
                                            attend respective office during the working
                                            hours and days in a week. He/She will have
                                            to attend the office during holidays in case of
                                            necessity.
                                       vi. The person appointed will require to
                                            maintain confidentiality of the work assigned
                                            to him/her by the Institute.
                                      vii. The person selected for appointment will
                                            require to show original certificates for
                                            verification of his/her eligibility for the post.
                                     viii. For any clarification on these guidelines
                                            decision of NCCT will be binding.

9.   Reservation Policy as per the norms of Govt. of India




                                      Page 2 of 2
