         ELECTRONICS & RADAR DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT (LRDE)
                       DRDO, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE
                 CV. RAMAN NAGAR, BENGALURU – 560 093.

                              LRDE: Advt. No. 03/2026/JRF

   ADVERTISEMENT FOR WALK-IN RECRUITMENT FOR THE AWARD OF JUNIOR
                     RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP-2026

        Electronics and Radar Development Establishment (LRDE) is one of the R&D
Establishments set up under the Defence R&D organization, Government of India to address
the needs of Defence Services in the field of Radar and related Technologies.
        LRDE invites applications from young and meritorious Indian citizens, who desire to
pursue Radar related research as Junior Research Fellows possessing qualifications as
indicated below.
 Sl.                    Number                                        Equivalent acceptable
 No.                        of                                        subjects of essential
         Discipline                  Educational Qualification
                        vacanci                                            qualification
                            es
                                     Graduate degree from          1. Electronics Engg
                                     recognized university in      2. Electronics &
                                     professional course (BE / B      Communication Engg
                                     Tech in first division in     3. Electronics &
                                     respective subject with valid    Telecommunication Engg
                                     cut off GATE Score (2024,     4. Electronics & Computer
                                     2025 & 2026 are acceptable)      Engg.
                                     Or                            5. Electronics &
      Electronics &                  Post graduate degree from        Communication Technology
      Communication         2        recognized university in      6. Electronics &
 1 Engineering            (Two)
                                     professional course              Communication System
      (ECE)
                                     (ME / M Tech) in first           Engg
                                     division both at Graduate     7. Electronics & Electrical
                                     and Post graduate level in       Communication Engg
                                     respective subject.           8. Any other relevant
                                                                      discipline with qualifying
                                                                      degree which mentions
                                                                      “Electronics” as the main
                                                                      discipline.



Essential information regarding selection procedure:

Fellowship Stipend: As per Govt. norms, currently ₹. 37,000/- per month (plus admissible
House Rent Allowance)
Upper Age Limit: 28 years for JRF as on 01st Sep 2026. The upper age limit shall be
relaxable to the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and OBC as
per Government of India rules.
Tenure: The initial offer shall be for a period of 2 years extendable up to a maximum of 4
years as per provisions of scheme of Research fellows in DRDO.
Nationality: Only Indian Nationals need to apply.
Application Procedure: Eligible candidates who are willing to attend the walk-in interview
are advised to send their willingness by email at hrdlrde2010@gmail.com by 25th Sep 2026.
The subject field of the email must contain “Application for the post of JRF-ECE discipline”.
Date of Walk-in: 08 Oct 2026
Interview Guidelines:
    1. Venue: Electronics & Radar Development Establishment (LRDE), DRDO Township,
        CV Raman Nagar, Bengaluru – 560093.
    2. Reporting Time: 0830 to 0930 hrs. at LRDE Main Gate Reception. Late arrived
        candidates will not be allowed to participate in walk-in interview process.
    3. While appearing for walk-in interview, the candidates are required to produce the
        following documents:
        a) Original certificates / testimonials w.r.t qualifications & experience for verification.
             (Note: Provisional degree certificate will be acceptable if all semester’s original
             marks sheets are available)
        b) Duly filled application as per the format provided along with a recent color
             passport size photo affixed on the top right corner & one self-attested copy of the
             originals. (If any document / certificate furnished are in a language other than
             English, a duly self-attested transcript in English of the same is to be attached.)
        c) Government issued Photo-identity proof such as Aadhar card / Passport / PAN
             Card / Voter Id etc. in original and a photocopy of the same.
        d) NOC from the employer for candidates presently employed in Government
             Departments / Autonomous Bodies/ PSU.
    4. Incomplete applications will be rejected during the screening for eligibility.
        Verification of original documents will be carried out from 0900 hrs. onwards
        followed by written test (if necessary) and interview on the same day. Candidates
        are requested to come prepared for the same.
    5. No Electronic items will be allowed to carry inside LRDE Campus.

    General Conditions:
    1. LRDE, Bengaluru reserves the right to amend / modify / cancel this advertisement
       and also to cancel the admission / selection at any time without assigning any
       reason thereof.
    2. The number of fellowships may vary.
    3. Antecedents of candidate will be verified again at the time of joining, if selected.
    4. A panel for the vacancies available and future anticipated vacancies will be drawn
       based on the order of merit. The panel will operate for a period of one year.
       However, the mere fact of empanelment will not entitle any candidate to an offer of
       Fellowship, which is contingent upon occurrence of vacancies during the year.
       Director, LRDE reserves the right not to select any candidate, if suitable candidates
       are not available.
    5. No TA/DA will be paid for attending the interview/joining, irrespective of the
       selection.
   6. The decision of the committee constituted by Director, LRDE in selecting the
      candidates will be final and binding on all the candidates.
   7. Misrepresentations or falsification of facts detected at any stage of the selection
      process or instances of misconduct / misbehavior at any stage during selection
      process shall result in cancellation of candidature without any notice and no
      correspondence shall be entertained in this regard.

   It may please be noted that offer of Fellowship does not confer on Fellows any
   right for absorption in DRDO.

Contact details: For any other related queries, please contact 080-25025312 / 355 on
working days (from Mon to Fri) 1400 – 1600 hrs.
                                                                                                    Photo


                                             Application Format:

        1. Name of the post & subject applied for         :
        2. Name (in block letters)                        :
        3. Gender                                         :
        4. Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY)                     :
        5. Age as on 01st Sep 2026                        :
        6. Nationality                                    :
        7. a) Father’s name                               :
                b) Mother’s name
        8. If Married, Spouse name                        :
        9. Qualification                                  :


                                      Year of                          Institute /          Final % of
 Sl. No.           Qualification                      Discipline
                                      Passing                          University             Marks
         i.       SSLC / 10th

         ii.      PUC / 12th

         iii.     BE / B Tech

         iv.      ME / M Tech


         v.       Any
                  additional
                  qualification


 10. GATE Details:

 Sl.             Enrolment         Subject      Year of ap-   Score   Marks     Qualified      Rank
 No.                No.                          pearance             (out of   (Yes/No)      Validity
                                                                       100)

  i.

  ii.


11.Experience, if any :
12. Details of Appointments held:

                              Employer’s         Period        Nature of Work     Salary
Sl. No.        Post held      name & ad-      From To                             drawn
                                dress
  i.



  ii.




13. Mobile / Telephone number                     :
        14. E-Mail ID                             :
        15. Permanent Address (with Pincode &     :
            State)
        16. Correspondence Address(with Pincode   :
           & State)
        17. Whether SC/ST/OBC/PwD                 :


                                       DECLARATION
        It is certified that the above information is true/correct to the best of my knowledge
and nothing has been concealed / distorted. If any information found incorrect at any stage,
then I will be liable for action taken by authority as per existing rules/law.




                                                                  Signature of the Candidate


NOTE:

           Attach self-attested copies of the following documents:
              a. Educational Qualification Certificates
              b. Gate score card
              c. Experience Certificates
              d. Proof for Date of Birth
              e. Address proof
              f. Support document for CGPA to percentage conversion if applicable
              g. Support document for category if applicable
              h. Government issued Photo Identity Proof
