                                 GOA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
       EDC House, Block ‘C’, Dada Vaidya Road, Panaji-Goa, 403001. Web: http://gpsc.goa.gov.in
                                ADVERTISEMENT NO. 09 YEAR 2026
                                      Published on 11.09.2026

Online applications are invited for the below mentioned posts.
The last date for filling up the applications for all posts other than the posts by transfer on
deputation is 25.09.2026.
The last date for filling up the applications for transfer on deputation post only is 25.10.2026.

To apply online refer the Commission’s website https://gpsc.goa.gov.in OR Government of Goa
portal https://cbes.goa.gov.in/

Candidates should carefully read the “Instructions” available on Commission’s website before
filling the application online.
2. In case of non-availability of suitable candidates with the knowledge of Konkani, the Goa
Public Service Commission may recommend a candidate if otherwise found fit and this
requirement can be relaxed by the Government, on the recommendation of the Goa Public
Service Commission, if the Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do
in case of Group ‘A’ posts in Professional Colleges and Consultants in the Directorate of Health
Services.
3. Prescribed EQs are minimum & mere possession of same does not entitle the candidates to be
called for interview. Where number of applications received is large, the Commission will short
list the candidates to be called for interview as mentioned in the “Instructions”.


NOTE: -1) Once the application form is filled appropriately, candidates are required to pay
application fees as follows:
a) Online
     Make online payment
     Download e-receipt showing successful status.

b) Offline
     Generate e-challan
     Make cash payment at any SBI Branch situated in Goa only on or before the last date
         (although the validity of e-challan is seven days from generation of e-challan).
     Bank Stamp is essential on this e-challan.
     Stamped e-challan to be produced to the Commission’s office on or before the last date
         of submission of application.

2) Only after successful payment candidates can download their application form.
3) Applications where fee payment has been made after the last date will be summarily rejected
and no refund of this payment will be provided.
4) Email address and mobile number of the candidate should invariably be provided in the
application form. The Commission will send all communications concerning the candidates
   application through the email address/mobile number provided. All candidates are advised to
   check their email accounts/mobile phones/Commission’s website regularly for updates/notices
   concerning their application.

   Note: If any discrepancy is observed in the translated version of advertisement than English
   version will be considered as Authentic.

   BY TRANSFER ON DEPUTATION

                                 I. DEPARTMENT OF HOME(GENERAL)
   INSPECTORATE OF PRISONS
   Medical Officer, by Transfer on Deputation …2 posts (Unreserved)
   Scale of Pay: As per Pay Matrix Level-10
   Educational & Other Qualifications:-
   Essential: Official holding Analogous post under Directorate of Health Services/Goa Medical
   College
                                     II. PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT
   GOA DENTAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL
   Assistant Engineer(Electrical), by Transfer on Deputation …1 post (Unreserved)
   Scale of Pay: As per Pay Matrix Level-7
   Educational & Other Qualifications:-
   Essential:Officers of the Central/State Government Offices.
a. a.(i)holding analogous post on regular basis
   OR
   (ii)with three years regular service in the post in the scale of Rs. 5500-9000(pre-revised) or
   equivalent and
   b. Possessing the Educational qualifications and experience prescribed for direct recruits ie.
        (1)Degree in Electrical Engineering from a recognised University or equivalent.
        (2) 3 years professional experience in maintenance and repairs of Dental machinery and
        equipment.

   GOA MEDICAL COLLEGE
   Assistant Professor in Department of Radio Diagnosis, by Transfer on Deputation …5 posts
                                                                                  (Unreserved)
   Scale of Pay: As per Pay Matrix level-11
   Educational & Other Qualifications:-
   Essential: Officers under the Central/State Governments/Union Territories Administration
   holding analogous posts (Period of deputation shall ordinarily not exceed three years)


   BY DIRECT RECRUITMENT
   GOA MEDICAL COLLEGE
   Lecturer in General Medicine ... 5 posts (02 Unreserved, 01 resvd for SC, 01 resvd for ST, 01
   resvd for OBC)
   Scale of Pay: As per pay matrix level 11
   Age: Not exceeding 45 years.
   Educational & Other Qualifications:-
   Essential:(i) A recognised medical qualification included in the First or the Second Schedule or
   Part II of the Third Schedule (other than licentiate qualifications) to the Indian Medical Council
 Act, 1956 (Act No. 102 of 1956). Holders of qualifications included in Part II of the Third Schedule
 should also fulfil the conditions stipulated in sub-section (3) of section 13 of the Indian Medical
 Council Act, 1956 (Act No. 102 of 1956).
 (ii) Post-graduate degree or equivalent qualification in the speciality concerned from a National
 Medical Commission (then Medical Council of India) recognized medical college/institution.
 (iii) At least three years experience in the concerned speciality as Senior Resident/
 Registrar/Tutor/Demonstrator in a recognised Medical College/Teaching Institution after the
 requisite post-graduate degree.
 (iv) Knowledge of Konkani.
 Desirable:Knowledge of Marathi.

 DIRECTORATE OF HEALTH SERVICES
 Dietician                                            …… 1 post(Unreserved)
 Scale of Pay: As per pay matrix level 6 Age: Not exceeding 45 years.
 Educational & Other Qualifications:-
 Essential: (i) Degree in Home Science of a recognised University or equivalent (ii) Knowledge of
 Konkani.
 Desirable: (i) Diploma in Dietitics. (ii) Post-Graduate Diploma or Degree in Nutrition (iii)
 Experience as Dietician in Hospital (iv)Knowledge of Marathi.

                                      DEPARTMENT OF HOME(GENERAL)
 DIRECTORATE OF FORENSIC SCIENCES
 Scientific Assistant in Forensic Science Laboratory in :
 a. Toxicology, Chemistry and Narcotics                             ……..1 post (Unreserved)
 b. Biology and Serology                                          ……..1 post (Unreserved)
 Scale of Pay: As per pay matrix level 6         Age: Not exceeding 45 years.
 Educational & Other Qualifications:-
 Essential (i) Master’s Degree in Science with at least second class from a recognised University for post at
 Sr. No. 1 - 2 in column (a) of the table below with specialization in the relevant discipline as specified in
 the corresponding entry in column (b) of the table
   Sr.                   Post                           Specialization
   No.                    (a)                                (b)
                 Scientific Assistant
   1.      Toxicology, Chemistry and        Chemistry/Forensic Science
           Narcotics
   2.      Biology and Serology             Zoology/Forensic
                                            Science/Microbiology/Genetics/
                                            Biotechnology
  (ii) Knowledge of Konkani.
 Desirable: (i) Should be Computer literate. (ii) Knowledge of Marathi.




Published on 11.09.2026 in:
1) Navhind Times
2) Herald
3) Lokmat
4) Tarun Bharat
5) Gomantak
6) Bhangarbhuy
