                         Goa Staff Selection Commission
        6th Floor, 3rd Lift, SPACES Building, Patto Plaza, Panaji-Goa – 403001
                                Website: gssc.goa.gov.in

                   INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES

Candidates must read all the instructions given below carefully before filling of the
application form. The form must be filled strictly in accordance with the
instructions given below. Applications not filled correctly, completely and as per
the instructions are liable to be rejected and the onus of such rejection would be on
the candidates. The Commission will not entertain any claims after such rejection.
The candidate must possess a valid email id and mobile number while applying for
the post and keep the same active till the completion of recruitment process to
receive messages/instructions from the Commission.

1. APPLICATION FORM
a) The applicant should visit the Goa Staff Selection Commission web site
https://gssc.goa.gov.in and should register himself/herself. The applicant should
note down the computer generated User ID and Password for future use. Once the
registration is complete the applicant may proceed to fill the application form
online.

b) Before filling the application, the applicant shall scan the self - passport size
photograph and his/her signature in jpeg or jpg format with size less than 1MB.

c) Separate application should be submitted for each post, in case the candidate
applies for more than one post.

d) The Commission shall not accept application form in any other mode other than
online.
2. FILLING UP OF THE APPLICATION FORM
a) All the columns/items to be filled as per the options provided therein. No item
should be left blank or wrongly filled, as the information furnished therein would
be used for deciding the eligibility and suitability of the candidates for
recommending the candidature.

b) In application form under Educational Qualifications, candidates shall clearly
mention the percentage (%) of marks obtained in the respective examination in
column “Percentage of marks”. Incase of grading in CGPA/GPA/SGPA etc, the
percentage of marks shall be worked out according AICTE/UGC approved table of
equivalence which is mentioned below. “Failing to comply to these instructions
may result in rejection of candidature”.
                         Grade Point     Percentage
                         6.25            55%
                         6.75            60%
                         7.25            65%
                         7.75            70%
                         8.25            75%

c) Candidates should ensure that they possess all Certificates of their Educational
Qualifications, Experience Certificate etc. with them in original on the date of
application. It should also be ensured that the Caste Certificate is valid on the last
date of application.

d) The printout of the application form is NOT TO BE SENT to the Commission.

e) Candidates are advised in their own interest to apply online/Pay the fees much
before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid possibility of
disconnection/inability /failure to log on to the website/ payment Gateway errors
on account of heavy load on internet or website jam.

f) The GSSC does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able
to submit their applications before the last date on account of aforesaid reasons or
for any other reasons beyond the control of the GSSC.
 g) The Candidates should ensure that they have filled in all the details with respect
 to their qualifications and experience in the online application form as per the
 essential requirements of the post. No additional information will be accepted in
 hard form once the application is submitted and if the candidate desires to upload
 additional information she/he has to apply once again within the due date for
 submission of application for that particular position.

 h) In case candidate faces difficulties in the following:
 i. Submission of online application on web portal
 ii. Payment of application fees
 They may contact on 8530499686/7020580397 and/or mail the query to goacbes-
 support@gov.in
 No phone calls or emails from candidates will be entertained on Commission’s
 office phone number or official email id.

 3. APPLICATION FEE:
  The application fee for various categories of candidates shall be as under:
    Category               Fees (in Rs.)
                           Level 1 to 3 of CCS Level 4 and above of CCS
                           Revised pay Rules 2016 Revised pay Rules 2016
    Un Reserved(UR)        200                         400
    SC,ST                  50                          100
    OBC                    100                         200
    PwD                    50                          100
    EWS                    100                         200
    The candidate is required to pay the fees as specified above, failing which the
 candidature shall be rejected.

a) After filling the application form online, the candidate should upload his/her
   passport size photograph and signature as instructed. The different modes for
   making payment of the application fee and their charges shall be as under:-
     Mode                                 Charges


     Internet banking                     Nil
     Debit Card                           Nil
     Credit Card                          Charges as specified on payment
                                          gateway
     UPI                                  Nil


Once the application fee is paid, the process of submission of Form will be
completed. Any change/editing of the application form shall not be allowed
thereafter.
b) Application without the prescribed application fee, in the manner narrated above
shall be summarily rejected and no correspondence/representation will be
entertained against the rejection.
c) The Application fee paid by the candidate is non refundable.

4. DOCUMENTS TO BE UPLOADED WITH ON-LINE APPLICATION
FORM.
(a) Passport size photograph (scanned) in jpeg or jpg formats only with size less
than 1MB
(b) Signature (scanned) in jpeg or jpg formats only with size less than 1MB

5. AGE RELAXATION
Sr. No. Category                                Age Relaxation
a.      SC/ST                                   05 years
b.      OBC                                     03 years
c.      PwD                                     10 years
d.      PwD+ST/SC                               15 years subject to maximum
                                                age of 56 years
e.          PwD+ OBC                            13 years subject to maximum
                                                age of 56 years
f.          Government servant                  upto 5 years as per the
                                                instructions issued by the
                                           Government from time to
                                           time.
g.         Government servant+ SC/ST       upto 10 years as per the
                                           instructions issued by the
                                           Government from time to
                                           time.
h.         Contract Employees working in Total contract service in
           various Government Departments. Government        Department
                                           subject to maximum of 5
                                           years.

     • In case of Person with Disability, relaxation in age-limit shall be applicable
       irrespective of the fact whether the post is reserved or not, provided the post
       is identified as suitable for persons with disabilities.
     • If a person with disability is entitled to age relaxation by virtue of being a
       Departmental employee, the same will be admissible either as a 'person with
       disability' or as a 'Departmental employee' whichever may be more
       beneficial to him/her.

6. APPLICATION FROM ‘IN SERVICE’ CANDIDATES.
A) Where Government servants apply directly to GSSC, as in the case of direct
recruit, they must immediately inform the Head of their Office/Department giving
details of the examination/post for which they have applied, requesting him to
communicate his permission to the Commission directly. If, however, the Head of
the Office/Department considers it necessary to withhold the requisite permission,
he should inform the Commission accordingly within thirty days of the date of
closing for receipt of applications. In case conditions warrant withholding of
application by the Head of Department, the GSSC should be immediately informed
of this fact and not later than 30 days of the last date of receiving of applications. It
should also be made clear that in the event of actual selection of Government
servant, he would not be relieved for taking up the appointment, if the charge-
sheet/prosecution sanction is issued or a charge-sheet is filed in a court for criminal
prosecution, or if the Government servant is placed under suspension.

B) When once the Administrative Authority has forwarded an application, it is
mandatory that the Government employee concerned should be released to take up
the new appointment. However, where subsequent to the forwarding of the
application, but before selection if exceptional circumstances arise in which it may
not be possible to release the official, the fact should be communicated to the
Commission as well as to the official concerned. The decision not to release an
official should be taken only where the circumstances referred to above are really
exceptional.

7. RESERVATION BENIFITS
(a) Reservation benefits will be available to the SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PwD/Ex-
Servicemen & other special category candidates in accordance with the extant
Instructions / Orders / Circulars issued from time to time by the Government of
Goa. The candidate has to select the particular category when applying to the post
online. No request for change of Category will be entertained at any later stage.

(b) The Commission makes selection of candidates in pursuance to the vacancies
reported by the Appointing Authority for various posts. The Commission does not
have any role in deciding the number of vacancies of any Appointing Authority.
Implementation of reservation policy, maintaining reservation roster and
earmarking of vacancies amongst different categories fall under the domain of the
Appointing Authority.

(c) The cutoff date will be the closing date of application for ascertaining the
eligibility of the Candidates for extension of any benefits wherever applicable.

(d) The Communities notified by Government of Goa will be given the benefit of
reservation/age relaxation under OBC category.

(e) A candidate belonging to SC/ST/OBC who is provisionally recommended on
the same standard as applied to unreserved category candidates and who appears in
the combined merit list is treated as own merit candidate. Such candidate is
adjusted against unreserved point of the reservation roster. Only such SC/ST/OBC
candidates who are selected on the same standard as applied to unreserved
candidates shall not be adjusted against reserved vacancies. In other words, when a
relaxed standard is applied in selecting an SC/ST/OBC candidate, for example in
the age limit, experience, qualification etc., the SC/ST/OBC candidates are to be
counted against reserved vacancies. Such candidates would be deemed to be
unavailable for consideration against unreserved vacancies.
8. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
(a) The candidate must be resident of State of Goa for last 15 years and should
possess certificate issued by Competent Authority.

(b) The candidate must be eligible in terms of age, educational qualifications,
experience etc. as per Recruitment Rules for the post in which he/she intends to
apply.

(c) The educational qualification, age, experience etc. as stipulated in
advertisement shall be determined as on last date of application.

(d) The Candidates applying under specific category must possess the relevant
certificate under the respective category. For example, the candidate applying
under Ex-Servciceman category must possess either discharge certificate or
released certificate or pension payment order from the Armed forces. The
candidate must be entitled to benefits admissible to ex-servicemen in terms of the
Ex-servicemen (Re-employment in Central Civil Services and Posts) Rules, 1979,
as amended from time to time.

9. SELECTION PROCESS
(a) The Commission will shortlist the candidates on merit, based on marks
obtained by each candidate in examination for each post.

(b) The primary list of shortlisted candidates will consist of number of vacancies
advertised plus 25% or two candidates, whichever is higher in wait list for such
posts in each category.

(c) The Commission will first proceed to shortlist candidates belonging to Persons
with Benchmark Disability category and Ex-servicemen category based on merit.
The candidates so shortlisted shall be adjusted against the category to which they
belong i.e. Unreserved (UR), Scheduled Tribes (ST), Scheduled Castes (SC) and
Other Backward Classes (OBC). The vacancies in these categories will be reduced
to that extent. In case, candidate under these categories is not available, the number
of such advertised vacancies will be deducted from the unreserved category. For
instance, the posts advertised are say 10 viz. 05 UR, 02 ST, 01 SC and 02 OBC.
Out of which 01 post to be filled from Persons with Benchmark Disability category
and 01 post under Ex-servicemen category and if the candidate under Persons with
Benchmark Disability category is unavailable, it shall be deducted from unreserved
category i.e. 5-1=4 i.e. the Commission shall proceed to select only 04 candidates
belonging to unreserved category.

(d) The Commission will proceed to select candidates of unreserved category as
per the descending order of marks scored in examination.

(e) In case of candidates belonging to reserved category, who by virtue of their
merit in examination are eligible for selection against unreserved category, they
will be adjusted against unreserved category, subject to the condition that the
candidate has not availed age relaxation or any other concession/relaxation other
than payment of fees.

(f) Once the Commission finalizes the list of unreserved category candidates, it
will proceed to prepare selection list of candidates under reserved category.

(g) The Commission in addition to the select list will also prepare a separate wait
list up to 40% of the vacancies or Five candidates, whichever is higher based on
merit of the candidates in their respective category: Provided that the candidate
from the wait list will be considered, based on any such request received from the
Department, only if the candidate from the select list does not accept the offer of
the appointment or is ineligible for appointment to such post.

(h) The wait list of the posts of the previous recruitment will lapse on the
declaration of the date of a subsequent examination for such posts or after a period
of one year from the date of publication of such wait list whichever is earlier.

10. PLACEMENT OF CANDIDATES
(a) The placement of the candidates in different Departments will be based on
decision of the Commission. The Commission may follow the concept of
proportionate representation depending on the number of post/s in each
department, number of department forming part of recruitment process in each
category with selected candidates arranged serially in descending order of merit.
(b) The decision of Commission shall be final. The Commission shall not entertain
any request for change in allotment to Department from the candidate as well as
from the Appointing Authority.

11. CALLING ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS /DETAILS
The Commission may in its discretion at any stage call for further details from the
candidate after receiving the application or after the Computer Based Test is held
or any at any later stage and unless such details are supplied within given time and
to the satisfaction of the Commission, the candidature will not be considered for
further test or for drawing the eligibility or for recommendation. .

12. SOLICITING AND CANVASSING
Soliciting or canvassing in any form or influencing the Commission in any manner
by a candidate shall disqualify the candidate and the decision of the Commission in
this respect shall be final.

13. WARNING AGAINST MISCONDUCT
Do not furnish false particulars or information. Do not suppress any material
information. Do not create, fabricate, alter or tamper with any of the document or
with the attested copy submitted. In case the candidate is known by different
names / surnames, he / she should produce suitable proof such as marriage
certificate or divergence certificate from the Competent Authority. A candidate
who is or has been found by the Commission to be guilty of obtaining support of
his candidature by any means, or of impersonation, or of procuring or submitting
fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with, or of making
statements which are false or of using unfair means during a test, or of writing
irrelevant matters including obscene language or pornographic matter in the
answer papers or of misbehavior in any manner in the examination hall or of
harassing or doing bodily harm to the staff employed by the Commission/or its
agency for the conduct of test or of attempting to commit or abetting the
Commission of all or any of the acts specified above, may, in addition to rendering
himself / herself liable to face criminal prosecution, be liable:
a) to be disqualified by the Commission for selection for the post for which he /
she is an applicant; or
b) to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period from any
examination or selection held by the Commission; or

c) for recommending disciplinary action under the appropriate rules, if he / she
already is in Government service.

14. CALL FOR EXAMINATION/SKILL TEST/PHYSICAL ENDURANCE
TEST NOT TO MEAN SELECTION
It is the responsibility of the candidate making application for the post to verify
himself/herself that he/she possess the required essential qualification prescribed
for the post. Merely receipt of intimation for appearing for examination does not
constitute that the candidate is eligible for the post. If at any stage, it is found that
the candidate does not possess the essential qualification, his candidature will be
treated as cancelled.

15. COMMISSION'S DECISION WILL BE FINAL
Decisions taken by the Commission in regard to recommendation are final and no
correspondence / representation in this regard will be entertained from the
candidate. The Commission does not enter into enquiries / correspondence with the
candidates about reasons for their non- selection for examination / appointment,
etc.

16. APPOINTING AUTHORITY
The appointing authority for the posts advertised by the Commission is the
concerned Head of the Department and not the Commission. The Commission only
recommends to the Department the name / s of candidate / s selected by it. Hence,
the Commission will not entertain any enquiry / correspondence from any
candidate in regard to the appointment given or to be given, or in regard to the
terms of appointment.

17. MEDICAL FITNESS
Recommended candidates are subject to medical test prescribed by the
Government, before their appointment. If he / she is found to be medically unfit for
the post, he / she will not be eligible for appointment by the Appointing Authority
though recommended by the Commission.
18. ANTECEDENTS & GENUINENESS OF CERTIFICATES
Recommended candidates are subject to enquiry by the Appointing Authority into
their antecedents and verification of the genuineness of the certificates of
qualifications, before their appointment.

19. JOINING TIME
The candidate recommended for a post and required to join duty should report for
duty within the specified time 'as per the appointment order from the Appointing
Authority. The period of joining time to be allowed to the candidate will be at the
discretion of the Appointing Authority.

20. ELIGIBILITY OF THE CANDIDATES BELONGING TO SCHEDULED
CASTES, SCHEDULED TRIBES AND OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES.
(SC & ST & OBC)
Candidates claiming to be belonging to Scheduled Castes / Scheduled Tribes/Other
Backward Classes should follow the Notifications issued by the Government of
Goa from time to time in respect of the inclusion of his / her caste/Community in
the SC / ST / Other Backward Classes category and for the purpose of obtaining
caste certificate from the competent authority in the prescribed form. (Producing
false/forged Caste/Community Certificates is a serious offense)

21. ELIGIBILITY OF THE CANDIDATES WHO ARE PERSON WITH
DISABILITY (PwD)
Candidates claiming to be Person with Benchmark Disability (PwD) should follow
the Notifications issued by the Government of Goa from time to time in respect of
the inclusion of the type of PwD permitted for the post and for the purpose of
obtaining suitable certificate from the competent authority in the prescribed form.

22. ELIGIBILITY OF THE CANDIDATES WHO ARE EX-SERVICEMEN
Candidates who are Ex-Servicemen are required to produce discharge certificate or
released certificate or pension payment order from the Armed forces or Certificates
from Regional Sainik Board or any other competent authority in the prescribed
form in support of their claim.
23. ELIGIBILITY OF THE CANDIDATES WHO ARE CHILDREN OF
FREEDOM FIGHTERS
Candidates who are Children of Freedom-Fighters are required to produce
certificates from competent authority in the prescribed form in support of their
claim.

24. ELIGIBILITY OF THE CANDIDATES WHO ARE MERITORIOUS
SPORTSMAN/SPORTSPERSON
The candidates applying under Meritorious Sportsman/Sportsperson must possess
certificate issued in Form 4 by the Department of Sports and Youth Affaires,
Government of Goa in support of their claim. No other certificate issued will be
considered as valid to apply under this category.

25. The post/s reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward
Classes, PwD, Ex-Servicemen and Children of Freedom-fighters will be advertised
once or more than once depending on the policy of the Government and
instructions issued in this regard from time to time.

26. The candidates are requested to visit the website of the Commission regularly
for further instructions. They must also go through the Instructions for appearing
CBT and Grievance redressal available on the website before appearing for CBT.

IMPORTANT NOTE:
The provisions relating to the rejection of application, here before, on different
counts are intended to ensure that applications forwarded are complete and perfect
and to avoid inconvenience and injustice that may be caused to any candidate
forwarding a complete and perfect application.

The decision of the Commission in all matters relating to eligibility,
acceptance or rejection of the applications, penalty for false information,
mode of selection, conduct of examination(s),allotment of examination centers
and preparation of merit list & post allocation, debarment for indulging in
malpractices will be final and binding on the candidates and no enquiry/
correspondence will be entertained in this regard.
Disclaimer:- The vacancy notice is based on the requisitions received from the
Appointing Authority. The essential qualifications have been given as
prescribed in the Recruitment Rules of the posts provided by the Appointing
Authority. In case of any typographical error, the recruitment will be strictly
as per the Recruitment Rules only.

                                    *****
