                                                                          Date: 21.09.2026



                            (VACANCY NOTIFICATION- Advt. No.- 05/2026-27)

       The ICMR- National Institute for Tribal Health Research, Jabalpur intends to engage following
   Young Professional (YP), purely on temporary contract basis for enhancing effective
   dissemination of work.
2. Applications are invited for the following positions listed below. More details about the posts
   are provided in Table A.

          S. No.             Position Title             No. of      Consolidated         Age limit
                                                         post       Emoluments
            1         Young Professional-I (Admin)        01      Rs. 35,000/-pm      Max.30 years


3. The Candidates who fulfills the requirements mentioned at Table A are invited to attend a walk-
   in interview from 09:00 AM on 6th October 2026 will be held at ICMR- National Institute for Tribal
   Health         Research,        Nagpur         Road,       Dhanvantri         Nagar,        Garha,
   Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482003, India.
4. Candidates are advised to arrive on time with filled in application form (Format copy attached)
   with original documents for verification and ensure they meet the essential eligibility criteria.
   Only those fulfilling the required eligibility criteria – pertaining to qualifications, age,
   experience, etc. – and after verification of original documents by ICMR-NITHR will be eligible to
   participate in the interview.
5. The scheme for engagement of the Young Professionals will be in Accordance with the ICMR
   guidelines for Engagement of Young Professional (YP-I), circulated vide O.M. No.16/84/2023-
   Admn./e-171470 dated 08/05/2026 and terms and conditions thereon will be as per said OM.
6. General Terms and conditions:
   i.     The positions are meant for temporary contractual basis.
   ii. Age relaxation will be as per rule & Cut-off date for the age limit will be date of walk in
          interview.

   iii.    Period of Engagement: -
           The initial term of engagement of Young Professional (YP-I) will be for one year which is
           extendable for two more years (01 years at a time) subject to requirement of the services
           of the YP in the institute and satisfactory performance of the candidate after evaluation

                                               Page 1 of 3
            by Director, ICMR-NITHR. Thus, maximum duration of engagement of YP in the ICMR-
            NITHR shall be Three year (1+1+1) in any case.
     iv. Relevant documents of educational qualification/specialization/experience as claimed
            must be attached with application form at time of walk in interview.
     v. No TA/DA will be paid to attend examination/interviews; candidates have to arrange
            transport/accommodation themselves.
     vi. Submission of wrong or false information during the process of selection shall disqualify
            the candidature at any stage.
     vii. The persons engaged on Human Resource Positions shall not have any claim on a regular
            post in ICMR-NITHR or in any of its Institutes /Centers or in any Department of
            Government of India and their project term with breaks or without breaks in any or
            multiple projects will not confer any right for further assignment or transfer to any other
            project or appointment/absorption/regularization of service in funding agency or in ICMR.
            Benefits of Provident Fund, Pension Scheme, Leave Travel Concession, Medical claim,
            Staff Quarters and other facilities applicable to the regular staff of ICMR etc. are not
            admissible to the project human resource positions.
     viii. The Director, ICMR-NITHR reserves the right to consider or reject any
            application/candidature at any stage, terminate the Young Professional position during
            the agreed or extended contract period without assigning any reason, cancel or modify
            the recruitment process at any time at its discretion, and prepare a panel of waitlisted
            candidates, which shall remain valid for one year.
     ix. Canvassing and bringing outside influence in any form for interview or employment will
            be treated as disqualification and the candidate will be debarred from selection process
     x. Candidates          already      in    regular      service     under    any      Central/State
            Govt./Autonomous/Dept/PSU are not eligible to apply for this position.
  7. Corrigendum/addendum/further information; if any; in respect of this advertisement, will be
     published on our website only. Hence, the candidates are advised to see the ICMR-NITHR
     official website (https://nirth.res.in/) regularly for further updates related to this
     advertisement. No separate notification shall be issued in the press.
                                                 Table-A
                                 Young Professionals (YP) – I (Admin)
Name of Position            Young Professionals (YP) – I (Admin)
Number of position(s)       01
Age limit                   Less than 30 years of age as on the date of the walk-in interview.
Remuneration                Rs. 35,000/- per month; No House Rent Allowance (HRA) will be paid
Essential qualification   • Graduate in any discipline with minimum 55 % marks, from a recognized
                            University/College. (With minimum one year of post qualification
                            experience in relevant field).




                                                 Page 2 of 3
Desirable qualification   • Post-qualification    experience     in   Administration   at   government
                            organizations.
                          • Strong writing skills in Hindi and English.
                          • Experience in policy and communications, particularly in the health or
                            research sector.
                          • Knowledge in IT applications, virtual meeting platforms, and computer,
                            including MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint.
                          Note: Experience of internship/training will not be accounted for

Role & Responsibility        •     To assist in coordination and implementation of Division related
                             research and program activities.
                             •     To assist the office administration and other office related work for
                             the project management and implementation.
                             •     To manage the project fund, sanction and release amount to
                             support research work, project related queries and other administrative
                             work
                             •     Knowledge of virtual meeting platforms, Audit administration and
                             Accounts/F&A and computer skills (MS Word/Excel/PowerPoint etc.) will
                             be an added advantage.




                                                  Page 3 of 3
