                         Administrative Officer (Finance Policy)

An Administrative Officer (Finance Policy) may be involved in assessing and advising on
national and international financial developments and providing policy advice designed to
support the Government’s social and economic policy objectives. An Administrative Officer
(AO) may be required to advise and brief senior management and Ministers on financial and
business policies and contribute to the drafting, and passage through the Oireachtas, of
legislation concerning financial issues.

An AO may also be involved in monitoring and reporting on the financial performance of
individual financial institutions and providing support and advice on their area of
responsibilities including: preparation of financial models, risk analysis and developing
appropriate methodologies.

A key Department recruiting at this grade is the Department of Finance whose mission is to
lead in the achievement of the Government’s economic, fiscal and financial policy goals,
having regard to the commitments set out in the Programme for Government.

The Department’s goals are set out in its Statement of Strategy 2026-2027 and are as
follows:

   •   Balanced, sustainable economic growth
   •   Sound Public Finances
   •   Well regulated, sustainable banking and financial sector
   •   International leadership in economic, fiscal and financial decision making
   •   Promoting environmentally sustainable economic progress
   •   An organisation with a shared sense of purpose where our people are valued,
       supported and empowered to deliver on our strategy

The Department plays a key role in developing policy responses to a range of economic and
geopolitical challenges that face the State. AOs can expect to be employed in a range of
roles across the economic and policy Divisions in the Department. This spans areas from
Banking and International Financial Services, Tax Policy, Economic Analysis and Planning
and consideration of economic impacts of key societal issues such as climate change,
housing and health. The Department has a significant focus on EU and International Affairs,
with associated opportunities to represent Ireland on the EU and international stage.

Please note that while the majority of vacancies that arise for this specialist role will be for
the Department of Finance, vacancies may also arise in other Government Departments
throughout the lifetime of the competition.

The main areas of responsibilities for an Administrative Officer (Finance Policy) may include:

   •   Assessing and advising Ministers and senior management on financial
       developments, including strategic developments in International Financial Services,
       financial stability and regulatory issues
   •   Preparation of advice and briefing for senior management and Ministers on financial
       and business topics arising in a national, EU, or global context
   •   The development and implementation of legislation and strategies at EU/Euro area
       level and internationally in relation to economic, fiscal and financial policy formulation
   •   Contributing to the development of tax policy and its implementation domestically via
       the Budget process, including the preparation of pre-budget submissions for the
       Minister for Finance and the drafting and preparation of legislation
   •   Supporting the Minister for Finance and senior management in the delivery of the
       Budget and Finance Bill
   •   Developing and implementing national and EU/International policy and legislation in
       relation to the financial services sector
   •   Supporting Government accounting (policy & standards etc), internal financial
       control, Management Information Systems
   •   Assisting in preparation of financial models, valuation materials and risk research and
       analysis
   •   Development and monitoring of execution of organisational strategy and divisional
       business plans.


                             Essential Entry Requirements

Applicants for these positions must, on or before the closing date of Tuesday 13th
October 2026:

        (i) hold a first or second class primary honours degree (at Level 8 on the National
        Framework of Qualifications) in Business, Finance, Economics, Accounting,
        Taxation or another financial discipline.
                                                  OR
        (ii) hold a first or second class primary honours degree in any discipline (at Level 8
        on the National Framework of Qualifications) and a first or second class higher
        diploma (at Level 8 on the National Framework of Qualifications) in Business,
        Finance, Economics, Accounting, Taxation or another financial discipline.
                                                  OR
        (iii) hold a Master’s degree or Post Graduate Diploma (at Level 9 or above on the
        National Framework of Qualifications) in Business, Finance, Economics,
        Accounting, Taxation or another financial discipline.
                                                  OR
        (iv) be qualified as an Accountant or Tax Advisor and be a member of a recognised
        body of accountants OR Tax Advisors, or be entitled to such membership (having
        attained a standard in the final examination that is acceptable to publicjobs as
        meeting the needs of the competition).
                                                 AND

        (v) successfully demonstrate the required capabilities for this role. It is expected that
        from the outset, those newly recruited will be able to make a substantive
        contribution to the work of the Civil Service. While training is to a significant extent
        ‘on the job’, induction and training courses in specific skills and areas of work will be
        provided to assist you to become familiar with the public sector.
IMPORTANT: Please see Appendix 1 of the Candidate Information Booklet for more
information on the Capability Framework and preparation guidelines.

Please note, to be eligible for this specialist role, you must have completed a significant
number of modules in Finance, Economics, Accounting, Taxation or another financial
discipline in your qualification i.e. at least an average of 50% of your course modules across
your qualification(s).

NOTE: Qualifications/eligibility may not be confirmed until the final stage of the process,
therefore, those candidates who do not possess the essential requirements, by Tuesday
13th October 2026, and proceed with their application are putting themselves to
unnecessary effort/expense and will not be offered a position from this competition.
