 Graduate Opportunities 2026 Administrative Officer Specialist - publicjobs Skip to content publicjobs Contact us Change Language English Irish Toggle navigation Login Register Home Job search Medical Consultants State Boards Help centre Login Register Graduate Opportunities 2026 Administrative Officer Specialist Type of request (hidden but active) New competition The closing date for this vacancy is 13/10/2026, 15:00 Vacancy ID 9005 Department/Authority Civil Service Department/Authority Website https://www.gov.ie/en/ Working pattern Full-Time Advertising Date 25/09/2026 County Dublin Location Dublin Closing Date for Application 13/10/2026, 15:00 Grade Administrative Officer Contract Permanent Type of role Civil Service Candidate Information Booklet Administrative Officer Specialist - Candidate Information Booklet - 9005.pdf – 974KB Opens in a new window Irish Candidate Information Booklet Administrative Officer Specialist - Candidate Information Booklet - 9005.pdf – 974KB Opens in a new window Accessibility Information: We are committed to a policy of equal opportunity and encourage applications under all nine grounds of the Employment Equality Act. Please see our Statement on Accessibility Application Information Please note that the language you choose to begin your application with cannot be changed once the "Apply" button is selected. If your application form is in English, your communications will be in English. To submit your application through Irish and receive communications in Irish, please ensure you are on the Irish language version of our website www.publicjobs.ie/ga before you access the vacancy you wish to apply for, and click "Déan iarratas" to apply. Job summary The Administrative Officer (AO) is the main graduate recruitment grade for the Civil Service and provides successful candidates with the opportunity to progress to middle management. As an AO, you would have a crucial role in policy and strategy formulation across the spectrum of economic, financial, international, environmental and social issues. Those appointed will have the opportunity to effect real change in the Civil Service and help shape a changing Ireland. You will also have the opportunity to gain a deep understanding of the development and implementation of government policy over a period of time. As the business, economic and social environment becomes more complex and demanding, there is an increasing need to ensure that a wider range of skills is available within Government Departments and Offices. publicjobs is looking for people with the potential to take on high level responsibilities in the management of public services and the analysis of public policy issues, and who possess particular qualifications, skills and capability in the following areas: 1: Energy, Environment and Climate 2: Finance Policy 3: Health Policy Analyst 4: Human Resources Main Duties of the Job Please see the Candidate Information Booklet for details of the main duties and specific eligibility requirements for each specialist role. Information about the organisation The Civil Service is a large, complex organisation employing over 50,000 people in approximately 40 Government Departments and offices and a range of other bodies. It has a diverse set of responsibilities, and its Civil Servants make a vital contribution to Irish life, from carrying out the work of Government to delivering frontline public services. Recruitment for this role is managed by publicjobs. Please see our Privacy Statement here . Please note: publicjobs uses Oleeo as our recruitment platform provider. Oleeo is based in the United Kingdom, which means that some of your personal data will be processed in the UK. As the United Kingdom benefits from an adequacy decision under Article 45 of the GDPR, and in conjunction with the technical and organisational measures in place, personal data transferred to the UK continues to receive a level of protection equivalent to that provided within the EU. For further information on how and where publicjobs processes your personal data, please see our Privacy Statement. About Us Meet Our Team Contact us Customer Charter Client Information Hub Awards Publications Who does What Diversity and Inclusion Accessibility Official Languages Review Process Transparency FOI Data Protection Regulation of Lobbying Terms & Conditions Site Map Site Requirements © 2024 publicjobs Powered By 
