                      Administrative Officer (Human Resources)

The Better Public Services Transformation Strategy 2030 positions the Civil Service to
deliver a modern, high-performing and future focused public service, with a strong emphasis
on building the workforce of the future. In recent years, the Civil Service has significantly
strengthened the HR function through a sustained focus on professionalisation, in
partnership with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), ensuring our
people practices are aligned with international standards and best practices. Excellence in
human resources is a key requirement in the development of a high performing and engaged
workforce. As a result, there is a growing demand for Administrative Officer (HR) roles.

The Administrative Officer (HR) role is designed to provide the link between strategic and
operational work of HR units in Departments and offers a unique opportunity to contribute
and support the Departmental HR Teams in achieving key organisational objectives through
the successful implementation of local HR strategies. Candidates will also benefit from a
strong development infrastructure, guided by the Civil Service People Standards Framework,
which sets out the capabilities to be successful as a HR professional in the Civil Service. If
you are seeking purposeful work, meaningful impact, and the opportunity to be part of a
highly skilled and evolving HR profession, the Civil Service offers a compelling and
rewarding career.

Successful candidates will play a role in transforming and modernising HR practices in their
organisation and across the Civil Service. The Administrative Officer (HR) role may include a
focus on areas of:

   •   Employee Wellbeing and Inclusion
   •   Talent Management
   •   Agile Working and Change Enablement
   •   Strategic Workforce Planning
   •   Recruitment and Selection
   •   Learning and Development
   •   Organisational Design
   •   Employee Relations and Industrial Relations
   •   HR Technology and Analytics

The Administrative Officer (HR) may also be responsible for managing relationships with
relevant stakeholders, including the NSSO (the Civil Service HR and Payroll Shared Service
centre), and overseeing the successful completion of general day-to-day HR activities as
required at Departmental level.

Training & Development
The Civil Service is committed to supporting HR professionals to build and sustain
rewarding, progressive careers in line with the Civil Service People Standards Framework. A
robust Performance Management and Development System (PMDS) is in place to support
ongoing performance, growth and career progression. Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) is actively encouraged, with access to a wide range of learning and
development opportunities, including targeted training programmes and professional courses
designed to strengthen capability across the HR function.

In addition, opportunities to engage with the wider professional community are facilitated,
ensuring HR professionals remain connected to emerging trends and best practice. This
strong focus on structured development and professional growth enables individuals to
deepen their expertise, broaden their experience and progress confidently along clearly
defined career pathways within the Civil Service HR profession.

                              Essential Entry Requirements

Applicants for these positions must, on or before the closing date of Tuesday 13th
October 2026 have:
       (i) a first or second class primary honours degree (at Level 8 on the National
           Framework of Qualifications) in Human Resource Management

                                               OR

       (ii) a first or second class primary honours degree (at Level 8 on the National
            Framework of Qualifications) in any discipline with a specialism in HR

                                               OR

       (iii) a first or second class higher diploma (at Level 8 on the National Framework of
             Qualifications) in Human Resource Management and a primary degree in any
             discipline (at least Level 7 on the National Framework of Qualifications)
                                               OR

       (iv) a Masters degree or a Post Graduate Diploma (at Level 9 on the National
            Framework of Qualifications) in Human Resource Management
                                               OR

       (v) a CIPD Associate Diploma (at Level 7 on the National Framework of
           Qualifications)
                                          AND

      (vi) successfully demonstrate the required capabilities for this role. It is expected that
           from the outset, those newly recruited will be able to make a substantive
           contribution to the work of the Civil Service. While training is to a significant extent
           ‘on the job’, induction and training courses in specific skills and areas of work will
           be provided to assist you to become familiar with the public sector.


It would be desirable but not essential for candidates to have:

       •       Two years high level work experience in a HR role
       •       CIPD membership (or membership of a relevant professional body)

IMPORTANT: Please see Appendix 1 of the Candidate Information Booklet for more
information on the Capability Framework and preparation guidelines.

NOTE: Qualifications/eligibility may not be confirmed until the final stage of the process,
therefore, those candidates who do not possess the essential requirements, by Tuesday
13th October 2026 and proceed with their application are putting themselves to unnecessary
effort/expense and will not be offered a position from this competition.
