Graduate Opportunities 2026
Administrative Officer Specialist

Role 1: Energy, Environment and Climate
Role 2: Finance Policy
Role 3: Health Policy Analyst
Role 4: Human Resources


Closing Date: 3pm on Tuesday 13th October 2026
                        Graduate Opportunities 2026
                       Administrative Officer Specialist
                              Role 1: Energy, Environment and Climate
                              Role 2: Finance Policy
                              Role 3: Health Policy Analyst
                              Role 4: Human Resources

Vacancy ID: 9005



Contact: Recruitment & Selection
Email: largevolumerecuitment5@publicjobs.ie
URL: www.publicjobs.ie


publicjobs is committed to a policy of equal opportunity and encourage applications under all nine
grounds of the employment equality act.


publicjobs is the centralised independent recruitment provider for the Civil and Public Service and will
conduct the selection process for this competition.


publicjobs and employing Departments/Offices will run this competition in compliance with the Code
of Practice for appointment to positions in the civil service and public service, prepared by the
Commission for Public Service Appointments (CPSA) and available on www.cpsa.ie.




publicjobs refers to Public Appointments Service established under the Public Service Management
(Recruitment and Appointments) Acts 2004-2013.

                                                                                                   -1-
Introduction
The Civil Service is at the heart of Irish society. Everything we do impacts our country, and most
importantly, our people. We are a robust and trusted institution, which has served the people of
Ireland since the foundation of the State. While the challenges which face the Civil Service today are
different to those faced at the foundation of the State, our core values remain the same.

The Civil Service is a large complex organisation employing over 50,000 people in approximately 40
Government Departments and offices and a range of other bodies. Every day the Civil Service makes
a vital contribution to Irish life. Everything the Civil Service does, from carrying out the work of
Government to delivering frontline public services, impacts Ireland in some way.

The Role
The Administrative Officer (AO) is the main graduate recruitment grade for the Civil Service and
provides successful candidates with the opportunity to progress to middle management. As an AO,
you would have a crucial role in policy and strategy formulation across the spectrum of economic,
financial, international, environmental and social issues. Those appointed will have the opportunity to
effect real change in the Civil Service and help shape a changing Ireland. You will also have the
opportunity to gain a deep understanding of the development and implementation of government
policy over a period of time.

As the business, economic and social environment becomes more complex and demanding, there is
an increasing need to ensure that a wider range of skills is available within Government Departments
and Offices. publicjobs is looking for people with the potential to take on high level responsibilities in
the management of public services and the analysis of public policy issues, and who possess
particular qualifications, skills and capability in the following areas:

       1: Energy, Environment and Climate
       2: Finance Policy
       3: Health Policy Analyst
       4: Human Resources

To apply, candidates must satisfy the essential entry requirements specific to the specialist role for
which they are applying. Please see page 5 for further details. In addition to having achieved the
essential entry requirements, effective AO candidates must demonstrate:

   •   Excellent communication (oral and written), presentation and interpersonal skills
   •   The ability to carry out research, analysis and problem solving
   •   Experience of effective team-working and the capacity to work in a multidisciplinary
       environment
   •   The ability to develop leadership capability and lead in your area of expertise
   •   The ability to show initiative while working with minimal supervision
   •   Evidence of working on projects and producing results within budget and specified deadlines.
   •   Evidence of meeting the requirements set out in the Administrative Officer Capability
       Framework

It is expected that from the outset, newly recruited AOs will be able to make a substantive contribution
to the work of the Civil Service. While training is to a significant extent “on the job”, induction and
training courses in specific skills and areas of work will be provided to assist you to become familiar
with the public sector. Those appointed will have the opportunity to undertake the Graduate
Development Programme which will build upon your experience to further develop your expertise,
                                                                                                     -2-
confidence, self-awareness and personal effectiveness to enable you to realise your potential and
deliver important outcomes early in your career. It is envisaged that these graduate recruitment
opportunities will arise across a range of Departments.

Selection for the position of AO involves a structured assessment process that may take place over a
period of time. publicjobs will keep applicants informed as they progress through the selection
process. Relevant information on each subsequent stage of the selection process will be provided in
advance to those candidates who are invited to progress, to ensure they are equipped to perform to
the best of their ability.

The Administrative Officer Capability Framework (click here to view) will inform the assessment
of candidates at all stages. Further information on the Capability Framework for the Administrative
Officer role is set out in Appendix 1. In addition, specific essential entry requirements for each of the
specialist roles being recruited are set out in more detail on page 5 of this booklet.




The onus is on the candidate to ensure that they satisfy the essential entry requirements for the
specialist role for which they are applying. Candidates are required to confirm at application stage that
they hold the required qualifications by the deadline specified. Admission to the competition does not
imply acceptance that a candidate is eligible to compete in the competition.




                                                                                                    -3-
Vacancies
Candidates who are successful in this competition, will be placed on a panel, in order of merit to fill
current and future vacancies which may arise. As vacancies arise in Government Departments /
Offices, in an ‘agency’ of a Government Department or in Garda civilian positions in An Garda
Síochána, successful candidates will be drawn from the panel in rank order, according to their
performance score at the final stage.

The majority of vacancies that arise for this competition will be based in Dublin, however a small
number may also arise in other regional locations throughout the lifetime of the competition.
Successful candidates must be willing to accept a position in Dublin. If you are offered a position
(whether you accept or not) you will, in the normal course, no longer be considered for any other
vacancy in this competition.

In the unlikely event that a vacancy in a regional location arises, candidates will be contacted to
establish their interest in such a vacancy.

It is not expected that appointments will be made from these panels after January 2028.


Summary Conditions of Service

Starting Salary: €41,176

Annual Leave: 25 Days

Hours of attendance: 41 hours and 15 minutes gross per week

Principal Conditions of Service: Please CLICK HERE to view full Conditions of Service (including
full salary scale) applicable to the role.

                                  Selection Process Provisional Dates

                    Closing Date for Applications              3pm on Tuesday 13th October 2026

               Candidates with disabilities to upload a        3pm on Tuesday 13th October 2026
              copy of their psychologist/medical report
              directly to their online application before
                      submitting the application.
               (Please see page 7 for further details)

                   Stage 1 – Online Assessment              5th November 2026 – 10th November 2026

                             Stage 2 –                        18th January 2027 – 22nd January 2027
               Capability-Based Interview & Exercise



           Please note these dates/stages are provisional and are subject to change.

Due to the large volume of applications that are anticipated to be received, extensions to
application and assessment deadlines cannot be granted.
                                                                                                      -4-
                                 Essential Entry Requirements
Administrative Officer (Energy, Environment and Climate)
Please CLICK HERE for further information on the role and specific eligibility

Administrative Officer (Finance Policy)
Please CLICK HERE for further information on the role and specific eligibility

Administrative Officer (Health Policy Analyst)
Please CLICK HERE for further information on the role and specific eligibility

Administrative Officer (Human Resources)
Please CLICK HERE for further information on the role and specific eligibility

IMPORTANT: Please see Appendix 1 for more information on the Capability Framework and
preparation guidelines.

Please Note:
Qualifications/eligibility may not be confirmed until the final stage of the process, therefore, those
candidates who do not possess the essential requirements, by Tuesday 13th October 2026, and
proceed with their application are putting themselves to unnecessary effort/expense and will not be
offered a position from this competition.

Please note that, given the volume of applications, publicjobs is not in a position to consider or offer
advice on the qualifications/eligibility of individuals unless they come under consideration. The onus is
on the candidate to ensure they fulfil the eligibility requirements as set out. publicjobs reserves the
right to deem an applicant ineligible at any stage if it is apparent that the candidate does not hold the
required eligibility/qualifications e.g. from the submitted application form. Candidates who come under
consideration following the final selection stage will be required to provide documentary evidence of
their eligibility, including qualifications. At this stage, candidates will be required to submit full official
transcript(s) proving eligibility, including any semesters completed abroad. Further information may be
requested from candidates who come under consideration for a position.

Candidates who are unable to demonstrate that they hold the required qualification(s) by the deadline
specified may be withdrawn from the competition at any stage. An invitation to tests, interview or any
element of the selection process is not acceptance of eligibility.

While it's not a prerequisite to apply for the competition, where possible, at the application stage,
candidates are encouraged to upload a copy of their final overall result (full official transcript(s)) along
with their application. When completing the application form, candidates can upload the relevant
documents in the qualification upload section. Candidates must not send a copy of their transcripts to
the recruitment unit mailbox.

Please CLICK HERE for further information regarding Eligibility to Compete and Certain Restrictions
on Eligibility.




                                                                                                         -5-
                                   COMPETITION PROCESS

Important Note:
Candidates applying to this competition must ensure that they meet the specific essential entry
requirements for their chosen specialist role. Candidates may only apply for one specialist role
and must only submit one application indicating the specialist role for which they wish to be
considered. The onus is on the candidate to select the correct specialist role.

How to Apply
Applications should be made online through www.publicjobs.ie.

At publicjobs, we have transitioned to a new recruitment platform with the aim of enhancing our
services and the candidate experience. The new service will give you more visibility and control of
your application.
When accessing our new recruitment platform for the first time, candidates must register as a New
User to create a profile (“Register”). To do so, please access the vacancy you wish to apply for on our
Jobs Board by clicking on the title of the position. You will be brought to the vacancy where you can
click on “Apply” in the right-hand section of our website, or at the bottom of the advertisement.
Candidates who have not previously registered on our new recruitment platform will be required to
enter some personal details to continue with their application. Account verification will be required,
and you must check your email inbox and follow the instructions to verify your account. Please do not
confuse registering (creating a profile) with submitting an application. Candidates who have already
registered will have an account and should select ‘Login’ from the top right-hand section of the
registration page or through the link at the bottom of the page.
Once registered and after your email address has been verified, you must then access the application
form, ensure all sections of the application form are fully completed and submit it.
To do this, you will be required to return to the vacancy you wish to apply for – Graduate
Opportunities 2026 Administrative Officer Specialist – on the jobs board on www.publicjobs.ie
and click on “Apply”. This time, you should select the “Login” option in the top right-hand section of
the Login Page. Your username is the e-mail address associated with your account. Please note that
your username and password are case sensitive.
Please carefully note the following instructions. As you progress through the application, at the bottom
of every page, there will be an option to “Save and Continue”. The information that you enter is only
saved once you click on the 'Save and Continue' button. If you close the browser before clicking 'Save
and Continue' or are inactive on the system for 30 minutes or more, you may be logged out of the
application form and your information could be lost.
It is imperative that all sections of this application form are completed in full. The mandatory fields are
marked with an asterisk *. These fields must be completed before you can submit the application
form. You may save the form and come back to it later, however, please note that you must submit
the form in order to be considered for this competition as unsubmitted applications will not progress to
the next stage.
All sections on the application form Progress Tracker must show a green checkmark before you can
apply. Return to any section on the Progress Tracker missing a green checkmark where guidance on
the missing information will be displayed. Please ensure all information is correct before submitting
your application as no changes can be made after submission. Once you have submitted your
application form, you will be brought to a page confirming the status of your application as
“Application received”. You can view the status of your application at any time by logging in, selecting
                                                                                                     -6-
your name in the top right-hand section of the page and selecting “View all applications”. At this point
you should consider adding @publicjobs.tal.net to your safe senders or contact list within your email
account to avoid not receiving emails because a publicjobs email has been blocked.
Only fully completed and submitted applications will be accepted into the competition. The admission
of a person to the competition, or invitation to undertake any element of the selection process is not to
be taken as implying that publicjobs or any other body is satisfied that such a person fulfils the
requirements.
Visit the Help Centre if you have questions or encounter technical difficulties navigating the site.
Only one application per person is permitted.
Candidates are not permitted to withdraw and resubmit their application.

Requesting Previous Application Forms
Candidates who may have previously applied for this, or similar roles, and who wish to be provided
with a copy of their previous application form should email dataprotection.officer@publicjobs.ie
with this request, confirming three of the following identifiers, as soon as possible.

1. Full name
2. Date of birth
3. Username
4. *Candidate ID (this would have been included in any communications regarding your previously
submitted applications)
5. *PPSN

We need 2 unique identifiers (information that is not readily available to others, marked with an
asterisk*) in order to verify that you are the account holder.

If you only have answers to 1 of the unique identifiers (marked with asterisk*), please answer either of
the following questions (if applicable)
• list your college/school qualifications
• list the last 2 Campaigns that you applied for
• list the job alerts that you have set up

If you are unable to answer either of these questions please provide us with the following information:
• Address including Eircode
• Work phone number
• Mobile phone number

Candidates with Disabilities – Reasonable Accommodations for the Selection Process
publicjobs has a key role to play in attracting candidates from all sectors of society, ensuring that
routes to career opportunities are accessible to all who are interested. We are committed to equality
of opportunity for all candidates.

If you have a disability or need reasonable accommodations made during the selection process, we
strongly encourage you to share this with us so that we can ensure you get the support you need.
Please note, this relates only to the selection process (e.g. online tests, interviews, etc.) and not
workplace accommodations.



                                                                                                       -7-
Reasonable accommodation in our selection process refers to adjustments and practical changes
which would enable a disabled candidate to have an equal opportunity for this competition. Examples
of adjustments we provide include the use of assistive technology, extra time, scribes and/or readers
or a range of other accommodations. Please be assured that having a disability or requiring
adjustments will not impact on your progress in the selection process; you will not be at a
disadvantage if you disclose your disability or requirements to us. Your disability and/or adjustments
will be kept entirely confidential.

Should you be successful, the disclosure of a disability for this stage of the process will not be passed
onto the employing department unless you request that we do so.

If you have indicated on your application/profile that you require reasonable accommodations,
you should upload a copy of your psychologist/medical report directly to your online
application before submitting your application. You are required to include a copy of your
medical/psychologist report before the closing date of the competition (3pm on Tuesday 13th
October 2026). Please do not email a copy of your report to the recruitment unit mailbox.

The purpose of the report is to provide publicjobs with information to act as a basis for determining
reasonable accommodations, where appropriate. The information within these reports that is useful
for us to see includes the outcome of any diagnostic tests conducted by your psychologist/doctor, and
their summary of recommendations in relation to your requirements. You may redact (block out) parts
of medical reports/psychologist’s reports that you feel are sensitive or unnecessary for the decision to
make reasonable adjustments.

If you have previously applied for a competition with publicjobs and submitted a report (within
the past 3 years), there will be an area on the online application where you can provide details
of the previous competition and/or your previous candidate ID number. A member of the
Assessment Services unit will check if your report is still on file (if you consented to this
information being retained).

If you have any queries about the reasonable accommodations process or the accommodations you
have received, or if you have any difficulty with sourcing your medical/psychologist report by the
closing date, please contact ASU@publicjobs.ie. For further information on the accessibility of our
service please see our Accessibility page.

If you wish to discuss any matter relating to the accessibility of our service or our building, please
contact out Disability Champion, Amanda Kavanagh, at edi@publicjobs.ie.

Closing Date
The closing date for receipt of completed applications is 3pm on Tuesday 13th October 2026.

Candidates are strongly advised to not wait until near the closing date and time to submit their
application. Therefore, the onus is on you to ensure that you have given yourself enough time to
correctly submit a completed application form as any requests to submit an application after the
closing time/date will not be considered.

If you do not receive an acknowledgement of receipt of your application within 24 hours of applying,
please email largevolumerecuitment5@publicjobs.ie.



                                                                                                     -8-
You are advised to check your publicjobs.ie Application Centre on a regular basis as email
notifications of updates/tests/Interviews etc. issued to the “Review Communications” area can
sometimes be filtered into your Junk/Spam email folders. You are also advised to check all these
folders regularly.

The onus is on each candidate to ensure that they are in receipt of all communication from publicjobs.
publicjobs accept no responsibility for communication not accessed or received by the candidate.
Candidates should make themselves available on the date(s) specified by publicjobs and should
make sure that the contact details specified on the application form are correct. If you do not attend
on the specified date/time you will be deemed withdrawn from the competition.

Selection Process
The selection process for this competition will comprise a number of elements. These may include
one or more of the following:

•    Completion of an online Assessment Questionnaire
•    Online and/or paper-based assessment test(s)
•    Shortlisting of candidates on the basis of the information contained in their application against
     set criteria based on the requirements of the position
•    An online video interview
•    Competitive Interview(s)
•    Presentation/Analysis exercise
•    Work sample test
•    Any other tests or exercises that may be deemed appropriate, including language proficiency
     tests

publicjobs has the discretion to add, remove or amend selection stages and assessments, at any
point, as necessary.

Applicants must successfully complete each stage of the selection process, in order to be considered
for advancement to the next stage of the multistage selection process. The number of candidates to
be invited forward at each stage will be determined from time to time by publicjobs.

Please note: If publicjobs is not notified of any issues you experience in advance of or on the
day of your assessments/interview, we will not be in a position to address these after the fact.

Stage 1: Online Assessment
The initial stage of the selection process will be an online assessment. Online assessments may be
taken in a venue of your choice, wherever you have access to a computer and a reliable internet
connection.

It is important to note that taking these assessments within a secure IT network e.g. a network such
as your work or college which may have firewalls or other security technology in place may cause you
technical difficulties. You should ensure that you can complete the assessments in a quiet
environment where you can concentrate without being disturbed for the duration of the assessments.
It is advised to take the assessments on a device that you are familiar with.

Candidates invited to complete the online assessment(s) will be sent a familiarisation booklet, with
more information and preparation guidelines.

                                                                                                   -9-
It is important to note that the email address you provide when applying must be one that you can
access at all times. Candidates will be given specific time windows in which to complete the
assessments. A link(s) to the actual online assessments will be sent to candidates’ portals on
publicjobs.ie in advance of the test-taking window. Candidates who have not completed all of the
online assessments before the deadline will be deemed to be no longer interested in this competition
and their application will receive no further consideration.

Your attention is drawn to Appendix 2 ‘Important Information’. If invited to progress through the
selection process, a candidate may be required to sit tests in a supervised environment.

publicjobs has no function or involvement in the provision of, and does not endorse, any
preparation courses relating to the selection process.

Stage 2: Interview & Exercise
Stage 2 of the selection process requires you to complete a Capability-Based Interview and a
Practical Exercise. Further details, including familiarisation material and preparation guidelines, will be
provided in advance of this stage, for those invited to progress.

Shortlisting
The number of applications received for a position generally exceeds that required to fill existing and
future vacancies. While a candidate may meet the eligibility requirements of the competition, if the
numbers applying are such that it would not be practical to interview everyone, publicjobs may decide
that a smaller number will be invited to the next stage of the selection process.
publicjobs provide for the employment of a shortlisting process to select a group who, based on an
examination of the application forms, appear to be the most suitable for the position. This is not to
suggest that other candidates are necessarily unsuitable or incapable of undertaking the job, rather
that there are some candidates, who based on their application, appear to be better qualified and/or
have more relevant experience. During shortlisting, an expert board will examine the application forms
against agreed shortlisting criteria which are based on the requirements of the position. The standard
of content of each application submitted may also be assessed during this process. The shortlisting
criteria may include both essential and desirable criteria specified for the position and, it is therefore in
your own interest to provide a detailed and accurate account of your qualifications/experience in your
application. The onus is on candidates to complete the application form fully and accurately.
In the case of competitions that may involve large numbers of candidates, candidates may be ranked
on the outcome of their online assessment tests and will be shortlisted in accordance with their
ranking. Applicants must successfully compete and be placed highest, to be considered for
advancement to the next stage of the multistage selection process. The number to be invited forward
at each stage will be determined from time to time by publicjobs.

Next Steps
Should you come under consideration to proceed to subsequent stages of the selection process,
further information will be forwarded to you at the appropriate time.

Positions Requiring Specialist Irish language Skills
The Civil Service is fully committed to fulfilling its obligations under the Official Languages Act. It is
intended that any vacancies arising, which require staff to provide a full range of services through the
Irish language (Functional Bilinguals), may be filled from this competition. In this regard individuals
who have proficiency in the Irish language and who fulfil all other essential eligibility requirements as
set out may indicate their interest on the application form.
                                                                                                      - 10 -
Candidates who indicate their interest in Irish-Language positions and who are successful at all
selection stages will be required to undergo certain assessments though Irish (e.g. interview, written
test, etc.) at an external assessment centre, prior to being considered for such a position. They must
achieve the required level in the Irish language, i.e. demonstrate a minimum Level B2 on the
Europass self-assessment framework.

Important notice for existing civil servants
Existing eligible civil servants that apply for and are successful in this competition should note that in
the event that they decide to accept an offer of assignment as an Administrative Officer from a panel
established under this or any other competition that they will no longer be eligible to compete in, or
be placed from, an internal or interdepartmental promotional civil service competition for the
grade of Higher Executive Officer or equivalent grade.

Review and Complaint Procedures under the Code of Practice for Appointments to Positions
in the Civil and Public Service

If a candidate is unhappy following the outcome of any stage of a selection process, they can either:

       1. Request a Review of a decision made during the process
                                  Or
       2. Make a Complaint that the selection process followed was unfair

A candidate can follow either one of the two procedures in relation to the same aspect of a selection
process, but not both. Where a review of a selection process has taken place under Section 7 (as
detailed below), a complainant may not seek a further review of the same process under Section 8,
other than in the most exceptional circumstances that will be determined by the Commission for
Public Service Appointments (CPSA) at its sole discretion.

There is no obligation on publicjobs to suspend an appointment process while a Review or Complaint
is being considered. However, the CPSA expects that, where possible, publicjobs will intervene in
cases where it finds an error is likely to have occurred.

Requesting a Review under Section 7
A request for review may be taken by a candidate should they be dissatisfied with an action or
decision taken by publicjobs. publicjobs will consider requests for review in accordance with the
provisions of Section 7 of the Code of Practice for Appointments to Positions in the Civil and Public
Service published by the CPSA.

When making a request for a review, the candidate must support their request by outlining the facts
they believe show that the action taken or decision reached was wrong. A request for review may be
refused if the candidate cannot support their request.

The Informal Review will consist of a desk-based examination of any available information in relation
to the recruitment process and the decision taken regarding the candidate’s application. The outcome
of the Informal Review Process will be communicated to the requester in writing.

   •   A request for Informal Review must be made within 5 working days of notification of the
       decision, and will normally take place between the candidate and a representative of
       publicjobs who had played a key role in the administration of the selection process.

                                                                                                     - 11 -
   •   Where a candidate remains dissatisfied following any such informal communication, they may
       adopt the formal procedures set out below.

A request for Formal Review must be made within 5 working days of either the notification of the
selection decision, or the notification of the outcome of the Informal Review process. Any extension of
these time limits will only be granted in the most exceptional of circumstances and will be at the sole
discretion of the Chief Executive.

   •   The candidate must address their concerns in relation to the process in writing to the Chief
       Executive (via email to ceomailbox@publicjobs.ie, or in writing to Chief Executive Officer,
       publicjobs, Chapter House, 26/30 Abbey Street Upper, Dublin 1), outlining the facts that they
       believe show an action taken or decision reached was wrong.
   •   The Formal Review will be conducted by a person who is completely independent of the
       selection process
   •   The outcome of the Formal Review must generally be notified to the candidate within 25
       working days of receipt of the request for review. If the investigation does not produce a
       decision within this time, publicjobs must keep the candidate informed of the status of the
       review and the reasons for the delay.

Making a Complaint under Section 8
A candidate may believe there was a breach of the Commission’s Code of Practice by publicjobs that
may have compromised the integrity of the decision reached in the appointment process. The
complaints process enables candidates to make a complaint under Section 8 to publicjobs in the first
instance, and to the Commission for Public Service Appointments subsequently on appeal if they
remain dissatisfied.

On foot of a Section 8 Complaint process, either publicjobs or the CPSA may find that the recruitment
and selection process in question has not adhered to the standard set out in the Code of Practice. In
such cases, publicjobs and the CPSA may make recommendations in order to prevent such issues
from reoccurring again in the future. The CPSA cannot instruct publicjobs to reverse a decision
taken in the course of an appointment process. Any candidate wishing for an investigation into the
decision taken regarding their application as part of a selection process should request a Review
under Section 7, as outlined above.

The complainant must outline the facts that they believe show that the process followed was wrong.
The complainant must also identify the aspect of the Code they believe has been infringed and
enclose any relevant documentation that may support the allegation. A complaint may be dismissed if
they the complainant cannot support their allegations by setting out how publicjobs has fallen short of
the principles of this Code.

The Informal Complaint will consist of a desk-based examination of any available information in
relation to the recruitment process. The outcome of the Informal Complaint will be communicated to
the requester in writing.

   •   An Informal Complaint must be made within 5 working days of notification of the decision, and
       will normally take place between the candidate and a representative of publicjobs who had
       played a key role in the administration of the selection process.
   •   Where a candidate remains dissatisfied following any such informal communication, they may
       adopt the formal procedures set out below.
                                                                                                 - 12 -
A Formal Complaint must be made within 5 working days of either the notification of the selection
decision, or the notification of the outcome of the Informal Complaint. Any extension of these time
limits will only be granted in the most exceptional of circumstances and will be at the sole discretion of
the Chief Executive.

   •   The candidate must address their concerns in relation to the process in writing to the Chief
       Executive (via email to ceomailbox@publicjobs.ie, or in writing to Chief Executive Officer,
       publicjobs, Chapter House, 26/30 Abbey Street Upper, Dublin 1), outlining the facts that they
       believe show an action taken or decision reached was wrong.
   •   The Formal Complaint will be investigated by a person who is completely independent of the
       selection process.
   •   The outcome of the Formal Complaint must generally be notified to the candidate within 25
       working days of receipt of the request for review. If the investigation does not produce a
       decision within this time, publicjobs must keep the candidate informed of the status of the
       review and the reasons for the delay.

For further information on the above Review and Complaint procedures please see the Code
of Practice for Appointments to Positions in the Civil and Public Service which is available on
the website of the Commission for Public Service Appointments, www.cpsa.ie

Requests for Feedback/Test Rechecks
Feedback in relation to the selection process is available on written request. Feedback and rechecks
may be requested for up to six months after completion of each stage of the competition. However,
please note that the Review Process as set out in the Code of Practice is a separate process with
specified timeframes that must be observed. Receipt of feedback/recheck is not required to invoke a
review. It is not necessary for a candidate to compile a detailed case prior to invoking the review
mechanism. The timeframe set out in the CPSA Code cannot be extended for any reason including
the provision of feedback and/or the outcome of rechecks.

Contravention of the Code of Practice
Any person who contravenes the above provisions or who assists another person in contravening the
above provisions is guilty of an offence. A person who is found guilty of an offence is liable to a fine or
imprisonment.

In addition, if a person found guilty of an offence was, or is, a candidate at a recruitment process:
    • they will be disqualified as a candidate and excluded from the process;
    • where they have been appointed to a post following the recruitment process, they will be
        removed from that post.

Unreasonable Conduct Policy
An Unreasonable Conduct Policy is in operation in publicjobs. Information on the policy can be found
on the publicjobs website.

General Information
Please CLICK HERE for general information regarding the competition.




                                                                                                     - 13 -
Appendix I

                            Civil Service Capability Framework
                                   Administrative Officer
Overview
The Civil Service Capability Framework for Administrative Officer will be used as a basis for selection
for these roles. The framework was developed based on extensive research and consultation and
supports the Civil and Public Service in building the workforce of the future. Our ambition is to attract,
empower and develop a diversity of people, with the capability and talent to collaboratively deliver
excellence, on behalf of our government and the people of Ireland.

Exploring and strengthening capability requires consideration of the whole person. The framework
builds on the competency-based approach and considers a wider variety of factors that may influence
performance, including: behaviours/past experience, skills, strengths, knowledge, values,
motivation and interests.

There are four broad Capability Dimensions within the framework: Building Future Readiness,
Evidence Informed Delivery, Leading & Empowering, and Communicating & Collaborating.
These Dimensions are further broken down into Sub-Dimensions (see below). Please note that your
expertise in your chosen specialist role, will be assessed throughout the process and in particular,
under the area of Leading with Specialist Insight.

The full Capability Framework for Administrative Officer, may be viewed on publicjobs.ie (click
here).




There are a number of performance indicators and key skills examples listed within each Capability
Dimension. A wide variety of indicators are included under each area, in order to provide more scope
for identifying capability in different ways, and to allow candidates with different types of experience to
demonstrate their strengths and capability.


                                                                                                     - 14 -
Useful Resources:

   1. Administrative Officer Capability Framework: https://www.publicjobs.ie/en/information-
      hub/capability-framework/administrative-officer

      Note: A PDF and an accessible version of the framework may be downloaded from the above
      webpage, under the ‘Additional Information’ section.

   2. Tips for Capability-Based Interviews and Example Questions:
      https://www.publicjobs.ie/en/information-hub/our-recruitment-process/interview-advice#tips-
      for-capability-based-interviews

   3. Candidate Guidance Video – ‘Introduction to the Civil Service Capability Framework’:
      https://vimeo.com/951952214




                                                                                              - 15 -
Appendix II
                                    IMPORTANT INFORMATION
                                      Terms and Conditions

Your attention is drawn to this important information. By accessing or attempting any
assessment/test materials you are agreeing to be bound by the terms set out below.
      1. All test and assessment materials are subject to copyright and all rights are reserved. No
         part of the tests/ assessment materials (including any text, questions and/or potential
         answer options) or associated materials (including practice and/ or familiarisation
         materials) may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means including
         electronic, mechanical, photocopying, printing, photographing, recording, written or
         otherwise, at any stage. To do so is an offence and may result in you being excluded
         from the selection process. Any person(s) who contravenes this provision, whether an
         applicant or other, or who assists another person(s) in contravening this provision, is
         liable to prosecution and/ or civil suit for loss of copyright and intellectual property.
      2. Your attention is drawn the Commission for Public Service Appointment’s Code of
         Practice for Appointment to Positions in the Civil Service and Public Service. In
         particular, please note Section 5 - Responsibility of Candidates (see below).
          Canvassing
          Candidates should note that canvassing to enhance their candidature or encouraging
          others to do so will disqualify them and will result in their exclusion from the
          appointments process.
          Candidates’ obligations
          Candidates in the recruitment process must not:
             • Knowingly or recklessly provide false information
             • Canvass any person, with or without inducements
             • Interfere with or compromise the process in any way.
         A third party must not personate a candidate at any stage of the process.
         Penalties for failure to comply
         Any person who contravenes the above provisions, or who assists another person in
         contravening the above provisions is guilty of an offence. A person who is found guilty of
         an offence is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
         If a person found guilty of such an offence was or is a candidate in a recruitment process,
         then:
               • Where they have not been appointed to a post, they will be disqualified as a
                  candidate
               •  Where they have been appointed subsequent to the recruitment process in
                  question, they shall forfeit that appointment.
      3. The admission of a person to the competition, or invitation to undertake any element of
         the selection process is not to be taken as implying that publicjobs is satisfied that such a
         person fulfils the essential requirements.




                                                                                                  - 16 -
- 17 -
