Employer of Choice
As an Employer of Choice the Civil Service has many flexible and family friendly policies e.g.
Worksharing, Shorter Working Year, Remote Working (operated on a ‘blended’ basis) etc. All
elective policies can be applied for in accordance with the relevant statutory provisions and
are subject to the business needs of the organisation.

The Civil Service also operates a Mobility scheme for all general service grades. This scheme
provides staff with career opportunities to learn and partake in diverse roles across a range of
Civil Service organisations and geographical locations.

                          Principal Conditions of Service
General
The appointment is to a permanent post in the Civil Service and is subject to the Civil Service
Regulations Acts 1956 to 2005, the Public Service Management (Recruitment and
Appointments) Act 2004 and any other Act for the time being in force relating to the Civil
Service.

Salary
The Salary Scale for the position is as follows: (rates effective from 1st June 2026):

Personal Pension Contribution (PPC)
€41,176, €43,899, €44,678, €48,089, €52,470, €55,949, €59,567, €63,232, €66,895, €70,547,
€73,077 (LSI1), €76,546 (LSI2)

The PPC pay rate applies when the individual is required to pay a Personal Pension
Contribution (otherwise known as a main scheme contribution) in accordance with the rules of
their main/personal superannuation scheme. This is different to a contribution in respect of
membership of a Spouses’ and Children’s scheme, or the Additional Superannuation
Contributions (ASC).

A different rate will apply where the appointee is not required to make a Personal Pension
Contribution.

Long service increments may be payable after 3(LSI1) and 6(LSI2) years satisfactory service
at the maximum of the scale.

Important Note
Entry will be at the minimum of the scale and the rate of remuneration will not be subject to
negotiation and may be adjusted from time to time in line with Government pay policy.

Different terms and conditions may apply if you are a currently serving civil or public servant.

Subject to satisfactory performance increments may be payable in line will current
Government Policy.

Payment will be made fortnightly in arrears by Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) into a bank
account of your choice. Payment cannot be made until a bank account number and bank sort
code has been supplied on appointment and statutory deductions from salary will be made as
appropriate.
You will agree that any overpayment of salary, allowances, or expenses will be repaid by you
in accordance with Circular 07/2018: Recovery of Salary, Allowances, and Expenses
Overpayments made to Staff Members/Former Staff Members/Pensioners.

Tenure and Probation
The appointment is to a permanent position on a probationary contract in the in the Civil
Service.

The probationary contract will be for a period of nine months from the date specified on the
contract.

During the period of your probationary contract, your performance will be subject to review by
your supervisor(s) to determine whether you:

   i. Have performed in a satisfactory manner,
   ii. Have been satisfactory in general conduct, and
   iii. Are suitable from the point of view of health with particular regard to sick leave.

Prior to the completion of the probationary contract a decision will be made as to whether or
not you will be retained pursuant to Section 5A (2) Civil Service Regulation Acts 1956 – 2005.
This decision will be based on your performance assessed against the criteria set out in (i) to
(iii) above. The detail of the probationary process will be explained to you by the
department/office, and you will be given a copy of the Department of Public Expenditure and
Reform’s guidelines on probation.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs in this section, the probationary contract may be
terminated at any time prior to the expiry of the term of the contract by either side in
accordance with the Minimum Notice and Terms of Employment Acts, 1973 to 2005.

In the following circumstances your contract may be extended and your probation period
suspended:

   •   The probationary period stands suspended when an employee is absent due to
       Maternity or Adoptive Leave.
   •   In relation to an employee absent on Parental Leave or Carers Leave, the employer
       may require probation to be suspended if the absence is not considered to be
       consistent with the continuation of the probation.
   •   Any other statutory provision providing that probation shall -
       i. stand suspended during an employee’s absence from work, and
       ii. be completed by the employee on the employees return from work after such
       absence

Where probation is suspended the employer should notify the employee of the circumstances
relating to the suspension.

All appointees will serve a nine-month probationary period. If an appointee who fails to satisfy
the conditions of probation has been a serving civil servant immediately prior to their
appointment from this competition, the issue of reversion will normally arise. In the event of
reversion, an officer will return to a vacancy in their former grade in their former Department.
Unfair Dismissals Acts 1977-2015
The Unfair Dismissals Acts 1977–2015 will not apply to the termination of this employment by
reason only of the expiry of this probationary contract without it being renewed.

The Organisation of Working Time Act
The terms of the Organisation of Working Time Act 1997 will apply, where appropriate, to this
employment.

Headquarters
Headquarters will be such as may be designated from time to time by the Head of the
Department/organisation. When required to travel on official duty the appointee will be paid
appropriate travelling expenses and subsistence allowances, subject to normal civil service
regulations.

Duties
The employee will be required to perform any duties appropriate to the position which may be
assigned from time to time. The officer may not engage in private practice or be connected
with any outside business which would interfere with the performance of official duties or
conflict with their role.

Hours of Attendance
Hours of attendance will be fixed from time to time but will amount to not less than 41 hours
15 minutes gross per week or 35 hours net per week. Where extra attendance is necessary,
overtime payments, or time off in lieu, will be allowed in accordance with the Civil Service
overtime regulations.

Annual Leave
The annual leave allowance for this position is 25 days, rising to 29 days after 5 years’ service
and to 30 days after 10 years’ service. This allowance is subject to the usual conditions
regarding the granting of annual leave in the civil service, is based on a five day week and is
exclusive of the usual public holidays.

Sick Leave
Pay during properly certified sick absence, provided there is no evidence of permanent
disability for service, will apply on a pro-rata basis, in accordance with the provisions of the
sick leave circulars.

Officers who will be paying Class A rate of PRSI will be required to sign a mandate authorising
the Department of Social Protection to pay any benefits due under the Social Welfare Acts
directly to the employing Department/Organisation. Payment during illness will be subject to
the officer making the necessary claims for social insurance benefit to the Department of
Social Protection within the required time limits.

Superannuation and Retirement
The successful candidate will be offered the appropriate superannuation terms and conditions
as prevailing in the Civil Service at the time of being offered an appointment. In general, an
appointee who has never worked in the Public Service will be offered appointment based on
membership of the Single Public Service Pension Scheme (“Single Scheme”). Full details of
the Scheme are at https://singlepensionscheme.gov.ie/.

Where the appointee has worked in a pensionable (non-Single Scheme terms) public service
job in the 26 weeks prior to appointment or is currently on a career break or special leave
with/without pay different terms may apply. The pension entitlement of such appointees will
be established in the context of their public service employment history.

Key provisions attaching to membership of the Single Scheme are as follows:

   •   Pensionable Age: The minimum age at which pension is payable is the same as the
       age of eligibility for the State Pension, currently 66.
   •   Retirement Age: Scheme members must retire on reaching the age of 70.
   •   Career average earnings are used to calculate benefits (a pension and lump sum
       amount accrue each year and are up-rated each year by reference to CPI).
   •   Post retirement pension increases are linked to CPI.

Pension Abatement
   • If the appointee has previously been employed in the Civil or Public Service and is in
      receipt of a pension from the Civil or Public Service or where a Civil/Public Service
      pension comes into payment during their re-employment that pension will be subject
      to abatement in accordance with Section 52 of the Public Service Pensions (Single
      Scheme and Other Provisions) Act 2012. Please Note: In applying for this position
      you are acknowledging that you understand that the abatement provisions,
      where relevant, will apply. It is not envisaged that the employing
      Department/Office will support an application for an abatement waiver in respect
      of appointments to this position.

   •   However, if the appointee was previously employed in the Civil or Public Service and
       awarded a pension under voluntary early retirement arrangements (other than the
       Incentivised Scheme of Early Retirement (ISER), the Department of Health Circular
       7/2010 VER/VRS or the Department of Environment, Community and Local
       Government Circular letter LG(P) 06/2013, any of which renders a person ineligible for
       the competition) the entitlement to that pension will cease with effect from the date of
       reappointment. Special arrangements may, however be made for the reckoning of
       previous service given by the appointee for the purpose of any future superannuation
       award for which the appointee may be eligible.

   •   Department of Education and Skills Early Retirement Scheme for Teachers
       Circular 102/2007
       The Department of Education and Skills introduced an Early Retirement Scheme for
       Teachers. It is a condition of the Early Retirement Scheme that with the exception of
       the situations set out in paragraphs 10.2 and 10.3 of the relevant circular
       documentation, and with those exceptions only, if a teacher accepts early retirement
       under Strands 1, 2 or 3 of this scheme and is subsequently employed in any capacity
       in any area of the public sector, payment of pension to that person under the scheme
       will immediately cease. Pension payments will, however, be resumed on the ceasing
       of such employment or on the person's 60th birthday, whichever is the later, but on
       resumption, the pension will be based on the person's actual reckonable service as a
       teacher (i.e. the added years previously granted will not be taken into account in the
       calculation of the pension payment).

   •   Ill-Health-Retirement
       Please note any person who previously retired on ill health grounds under the terms of
       a superannuation scheme are required to declare, at the initial application phase, that
        they are in receipt of such a pension to the organisation administering the recruitment
        competition.

        Applicants will be required to attend the CMO’s office to assess their ability to provide
        regular and effective service taking account of the condition which qualified them for
        IHR.


Appointment post ill-health retirement from Civil Service
       If successful in their application through the competition, the applicant should be aware
       of the following:

        1. If deemed fit to provide regular and effective service and assigned to a post, their
           civil service ill-health pension ceases.
        2. If the applicant subsequently fails to complete probation or decides to leave their
           assigned post, there can be no reversion to the civil service IHR status, nor
           reinstatement of the civil service IHR pension, that existed prior to the application
           nor is there an entitlement to same.
        3. The applicant will become a member of the Single Public Service Pension Scheme
           (SPSPS) upon appointment if they have had a break in pensionable public/civil
           service of more than 26 weeks.

Appointment post ill-health retirement from Public Service
       1. Where an individual has retired from a public service body their ill-health pension
          from that employment may be subject to review in accordance with the rules of ill-
          health retirement under that scheme.
       2. If an applicant is successful, on appointment the applicant will be required to declare
          whether they are in receipt of a public service pension (ill-health or otherwise) and
          their public service pension may be subject to abatement.
        3. The applicant will become a member of the Single Public Service Pension Scheme
           (SPSPS) upon appointment if they have had a break in pensionable public/civil
           service of more than 26 weeks.

Please note more detailed information in relation to pension implications for those in receipt of
a civil or public service ill-health pension is available via this link or upon request to publicjobs.

Pension Accrual
A 40-year limit on total service that can be counted towards pension where a person has been
a member of more than one pre-existing public service pension scheme (i.e. non-Single
Scheme) as per the 2012 Act shall apply. This 40-year limit is provided for in the Public
Service Pensions (Single Scheme and Other Provisions) Act 2012. This may have
implications for any appointee who has acquired pension rights in a previous public service
employment.

Additional Superannuation Contribution
This appointment is subject to the Additional Superannuation Contribution (ASC) in
accordance with the Public Service Pay and Pensions Act 2017.
Note: ASC deductions are in addition to any pension contributions (main scheme and
spouses’ and children’s contributions) required under the rules of your pension scheme.
For further information in relation to the Single Public Service Pension Scheme please see the
following website - https://singlepensionscheme.gov.ie/.

Secrecy, Confidentiality and Standards of Behaviour - Official Secrecy and Integrity
During the term of the probationary contract, an officer will be subject to the Provisions of the
Official Secrets Act, 1963, as amended by the Freedom of Information Act 2014. The officer
will agree not to disclose to unauthorised third parties any confidential information either
during or subsequent to the period of employment.

Civil Service Code of Standards and Behaviour
The appointee will be subject to the Civil Service Code of Standards and Behaviour.

Ethics in Public Office Acts:
The Ethics in Public Office Acts will apply, where appropriate, to this appointment.

Prior approval of publications
An officer will agree not to publish material related to their official duties without prior approval
by the Chairperson of the Authority or by another appropriate authorised officer.

Political Activity
During the term of employment the officer will be subject to the rules governing public
servants and politics.

All circulars are available on the website www.circulars.gov.ie or from the Personnel Section.

                                    Important Notice
The foregoing represents the principal conditions of service and is not intended to be
the comprehensive list of all terms and conditions of employment which will be set out
in the probationary contract to be agreed with the successful candidate.
