             Administrative Officer (Energy, Environment and Climate)

Background
The Department of Climate, Energy and the Environment (DCEE) have responsibility for
delivering evidence-based policies and programmes, overseeing regulation, conducting
operational fieldwork, and ensuring compliance and governance across the areas of Climate,
Energy, and the Environment.

DCEE comprises just under 700 staff members, located across offices in Dublin, Wexford,
and Cavan. The Department is supported in their mandate by 11 State Bodies, comprising of
a number of leading commercial, non-commercial and regulatory bodies, which play a critical
role in delivering the Government’s vision for Ireland. DCEE is committed to partnering
across Government to progress our strategic goals and supporting other Departments in
cross-cutting Government priorities.

About DCEE
The work of the Department is to deliver climate action; the transformation of our energy
systems; the protection and resilience of our environment and a resource-efficient economy.
Our areas of focus range from developing the Climate Action Plan, implementing our
Offshore Wind Energy Programme, delivering the Circular Economy Strategy, supporting the
implementation of Energy Security in Ireland to 2030, to continuing our residential retrofitting
programme and developing district heating.

DCEE’s operations are underpinned by a set of core values that reflect our identity, inform
our interactions, and guide our day-to-day work. Our work impacts nearly every aspect of
daily life in Ireland, and our staff take pride in their contribution to a more sustainable and
equitable future. We draw on a diverse range of expertise and are united by a strong
commitment to public service for the benefit of all citizens.




National Standards Authority of Ireland (NSAI)




DCEE is proud to be the first Government Department to achieve ‘Gold’ Certification from
the National Standards Authority of Ireland (NSAI). This certification recognises the
Department’s dedication to continuous improvement in areas such as business planning,
communication and collaboration, leadership and management, learning and development,
human resources, and employee wellbeing. It also highlights the Department’s commitment
to fulfilling, impactful roles and working with our people to ensure a supportive, collaborative
working environment and culture.

Statement of Strategy
The Department’s Statement of Strategy Le Chéile 28 contains five strategic goals:




Further information on the Department’s Mission, Vision, Values and Statement of Strategy
can be found here.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Our Department is dedicated to creating an inclusive workplace, where everyone is
encouraged to be themselves, knowing that they will be accepted and treated fairly with
dignity and respect. Our aim is to have an organisation where Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion (EDI) is embedded and embraced, where EDI enables our operating model,
informs policy development and decision making, and is echoed in our values and
behaviours. Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy support the implementation of our
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and Action Plan and shows how we will deliver on
our commitment to promote equality and fairness and combat discrimination, as an employer
and a public body. This commitment applies to everyone, regardless of gender, civil status,
family status, sexual orientation, religion, age, disability, race or membership of the Traveller
community.

In March 2025, the Department was awarded “Bronze” Investors in Diversity Accreditation,
which recognises our commitment to becoming a more equitable and inclusive organisation.
You can read more about Equality Diversity and Inclusion in DCEE on our website at this link
Human Rights and Equality.
The Role
The work of an Administrative Officer (Energy, Environment and Climate) in the Department
will vary depending on the particular Division of the Department to which the individual is
assigned, but typically covers one or more of the following.

Using their relevant experience and qualifications, undertaking policy analysis to contribute
to the development of evidence-based policy and legislation such as:

   •   Implementing key legislation such as the Climate Action and Low Carbon
       Development Act 2021, Maritime Area Planning Act 2021, and Eirgrid, Electricity and
       Turf (Amendment) Act 2022.
   •   Implementing the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030, Long Term Climate
       Strategy, Climate Adaptation Framework, annual Climate Action Plan, National
       Energy Security Strategy, and the National Hydrogen Strategy 2023.
   •   Supporting the Department’s leadership in driving climate action across the public
       sector, including working in partnership with local authorities to deliver effective local
       and community-led climate action.
   •   Developing major new policy initiatives in areas such as climate adaptation, citizen
       engagement, energy strategy, and circular economy
   •   Supporting the government's leadership in delivering key grid infrastructure priorities
       and energy security, resilience, and affordability objectives including working in
       partnership with other government departments and relevant stakeholders
   •   Developing policy and implementation plans arising from EU Directives and
       Regulations, to implement the EU Green Deal and RePowerEU, including in areas
       such as the EU Emissions Trading System, Renewable Energy and Energy
       Efficiency, the regulation of electricity and gas markets, EU Maritime Spatial Planning
       (MSP) Directive, the EU Strategy on Offshore Renewable Energy, and the Open
       Data and INSPIRE Directives.
   •   Supporting the Department and Minister to represent Ireland’s interests in
       international climate, environment and energy policies, including through the UN
       Framework Convention on Climate Change, UN Environment Programme, OECD
       and International Energy Agency.
   •   Supporting a wide range of technical and scientific advisory work across a wide
       range of climate and advisory issues.
   •   Supporting the department's leadership in the governance of State Bodies including
       financial, commercial, and non-commercial governance responsibilities
   •   Working with various stakeholder to understand the requirements to address
       environmental challenges.
   •   Providing data analysis to senior management of the relevant policy unit which will
       support the strategic direction for the work programme of the unit.
   •   Working in partnership with colleagues across the Department and other external
       agencies, engaging with a wide range of stakeholders in driving forward the work
       programme.
   •   Supporting the Public Services Transformation Framework
   •   Overseeing and managing a small team of staff within the Unit who will deliver the
       day to-day operations of the Unit.

Person Specification
The person(s) appointed will be able to bring their knowledge and skills in the areas of
climate and environmental policy to contribute to the development of the Department’s policy
objectives. They will have a strong ability to write high quality, clear and concise policy,
briefing and other documents and contribute to the development of policy in a busy, high-
profile environment working within tight timeframes.

The individual appointed will have, or an ability to develop, the following desired skills and
experience:

   •   Skills in using quantitative and qualitative tools and techniques to conduct policy
       analysis and evaluation
   •   Strong Interpersonal and Communication skills
   •   Ability to Deliver results on projects – personally or within a team
   •   Analysis of diverse data sources to support decision making
   •   Clear and concise policy writing skills
   •   Knowledge of Sustainable Heating Technologies
   •   Knowledge of Renewable Energy Policy

Please note that while the majority of vacancies that arise for this specialist role will be for
the Department of Climate, Energy and the Environment, specialist positions may also arise
in other Government Departments throughout the lifetime of the competition, to which
successful candidates may be assigned.

                              Essential Entry Requirements

Applicants for these positions must, on or before the closing date of Tuesday 13th
October 2026 have:

       (i) a first or second class primary honours degree (at Level 8 on the National
       Framework of Qualifications) in Environmental Science, Energy, Climate, Agriculture,
       Economics, Geography, Electrical or Technical Engineering

                                                  OR

       (ii) a first or second class higher diploma (at Level 8 on the National Framework of
       Qualifications) in Environmental Science, Energy, Climate, Agriculture, Economics,
       Geography, Electrical or Technical Engineering and a primary degree in any
       discipline (at least Level 7 on the National Framework of Qualifications)

                                                  OR

       (iii) a Master’s degree or a Post Graduate Diploma (at Level 9 on the National
       Framework of Qualifications) in Environmental Science, Energy, Climate, Agriculture,
       Economics, Geography, Electrical or Technical Engineering

                                                  AND

       (iv) successfully demonstrate the required capabilities for this role. It is expected that
       from the outset, those newly recruited will be able to make a substantive contribution
       to the work of the Civil Service. While training is to a significant extent ‘on the job’,
       induction and training courses in specific skills and areas of work will be provided to
       assist you to become familiar with the public sector.
IMPORTANT: Please see Appendix 1 of the Candidate Information Booklet for more
information on the Capability Framework and preparation guidelines.

Please note, to be eligible for this specialist role, you must have completed a significant
number of modules in Environmental Science, Energy, Climate, Agriculture, Economics,
Geography, Electrical or Technical Engineering in your qualification i.e. at least an average
of 50% of your course modules across your qualification(s).

NOTE: Qualifications/eligibility may not be confirmed until the final stage of the process,
therefore, those candidates who do not possess the essential requirements, by Tuesday
13th October 2026, and proceed with their application are putting themselves to
unnecessary effort/expense and will not be offered a position from this competition.
