Eligibility to Compete and Certain Restrictions on Eligibility
Citizenship Requirements

Eligible Candidates must be:
(a)     A citizen of the European Economic Area. The EEA consists of the Member States of
        the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway; or
(b)     A citizen of the United Kingdom (UK); or
(c)     A citizen of Switzerland pursuant to the agreement between the EU and Switzerland
        on the free movement of persons; or
(d)     A non-EEA citizen who has a stamp 4 permission1 or stamp 5 permission.

1
 Please note that a 50 TEU permission, which is a replacement for Stamp 4EUFAM after
Brexit, is acceptable as a Stamp 4 equivalent.

To qualify candidates must meet one of the citizenship criteria above by the date of
any job offer.

Health & Character
Candidates must be in good health, capable and competent of carrying out the work
assigned to them, and they must also be of good character. Those under consideration for a
position will be required to complete a health and character declaration. References will be
sought. Some posts will require special security clearance and will require completion of a
form for Garda vetting purposes. In the event of conflicts of interest, candidates may not be
considered for certain posts.

Collective Agreement: Redundancy Payments to Public Servants
The Department of Public Expenditure and Reform letter dated 28th June 2012 to Personnel
Officers introduced, with effect from 1st June 2012, a Collective Agreement which had been
reached between the Department of Public Expenditure and Reform and the Public Services
Committee of the ICTU in relation to ex-gratia Redundancy Payments to Public Servants. It
is a condition of the Collective Agreement that persons availing of the agreement will not be
eligible for re-employment in the Public Service by any Public Service body (as defined by
the Financial Emergency Measures in the Public Interest Acts 2009 – 2011) for a period of 2
years from termination of the employment. People who availed of this scheme and who may
be successful in this competition will have to prove their eligibility (expiry of period of non-
eligibility).

Incentivised Scheme for Early Retirement (ISER)
It is a condition of the Incentivised Scheme for Early Retirement (ISER) as set out in
Department of Finance Circular 12/09 that retirees, under that Scheme, are not eligible to
apply for another position in the same employment or the same sector. Therefore, such
retirees may not apply for this position.

Department of Health and Children Circular (7/2010)
The Department of Health Circular 7/2010 dated 1 November 2010 introduced a Targeted
Voluntary Early Retirement (VER) Scheme and Voluntary Redundancy Schemes (VRS). It
is a condition of the VER scheme that persons availing of the scheme will not be eligible for
re-employment in the public health sector or in the wider Public Service or in a body wholly
or mainly funded from public moneys. The same prohibition on re-employment applies
under the VRS, except that the prohibition is for a period of 7 years. People who availed of
the VER scheme are not eligible to compete in this competition. People who availed of the
VRS scheme and who may be successful in this competition will have to prove their
eligibility (expiry of period of non-eligibility).

Department of Environment, Community & Local Government (Circular Letter LG(P)
06/2013)
The Department of Environment, Community & Local Government Circular Letter LG(P)
06/2013 introduced a Voluntary Redundancy Scheme for Local Authorities. In accordance
with the terms of the Collective Agreement: Redundancy Payments to Public Servants dated
28 June 2012 as detailed above, it is a specific condition of that VER Scheme that persons
will not be eligible for re-employment in any Public Service body [as defined by the Financial
Emergency Measures in the Public Interest Acts 2009 – 2011 and the Public Service
Pensions (Single Scheme and Other Provisions) Act 2012] for a period of 2 years from their
date of departure under this Scheme. These conditions also apply in the case of
engagement/employment on a contract for service basis (either as a contractor or as an
employee of a contractor).

Declaration
Applicants will be required to declare whether they have previously availed of a Public
Service scheme of incentivised early retirement. Applicants will also be required to declare
any entitlements to a Public Service pension benefit (in payment or preserved) from any
other Public Service employment and/or where they have received a payment-in-lieu in
respect of service in any Public Service employment.
