                        Rolling Advertisement No. L-10/25-26
                               Areas of Specialization

Sr.   Academic Unit           Areas of Specialization
No.

1     Aerospace Engineering   Application of AI/ML and numerical techniques to aerospace
                              and related multi-physics systems.

                              Computational or mathematical methods with a focus on
                              digital twin development for aerospace systems.

                              Aerospace systems design and space engineering.

                              Experimental aerodynamics.

                              Structural health monitoring, experimental mechanics and/or
                              modelling of high-temperature materials, NDE wave
                              propagation, and damage detection in aircraft structural
                              materials.

                              The following themes in the context of aerospace propulsion
                              systems: sustainability, electric or more-electric systems,
                              heat transfer, engine health monitoring, experimental
                              high-speed      combustion,     space    propulsion,    and
                              liquid/cryo/semi-cryo engines.

                              Navigation, guidance and control, flight mechanics, and
                              estimation techniques for aerospace vehicles and systems.

2     Biosciences &           (1) Medical Instrumentation
      Bioengineering          (2) Medical Signal & Medical Image Processing
                              (3) Physiological Systems Modelling
                              (4) Data Science for Biomedical Engineering
                              (5) Development of Microscopy Tools and Systems
                              (6) Vertebrate Animal Biology (Development, Neurobiology,
                              Regeneration, Aging, Disease models etc.).
                              (7) Genomics/Lipidomics/Metabolomics
                              (8) Synthetic Biology
                              (9) Plant Biology
                              (10) Single Molecule Techniques
                              (11) Bioinformatics
                              (12) Cell & Gene Therapy

3     Chemical Engineering    Candidates with at least one degree in chemical engineering
                              (undergraduate, postgraduate, or doctoral) will be
                              considered under all six broad research areas of chemical
                              engineering (see below).

                              Candidates without a formal degree in Chemical
                              Engineering will be considered only under exceptional
                              circumstances, and only if their primary research aligns with
                              one of the specific sub-areas (a, b, etc.) within the six broad
                              research domains of the Chemical Engineering Department.
                              In addition, such candidates must demonstrate the
Sr.   Academic Unit   Areas of Specialization
No.

                      capability to teach at least one of the following
                      undergraduate        courses:        Chemical        Engineering
                      Thermodynamics,        Chemical       Reaction       Engineering,
                      Introduction to Transport Phenomena, and Introduction to
                      Numerical Analysis as listed on the department website
                      (https://www.che.iitb.ac.in/old/sites/default/files/basicpagefile
                      s/UG%20Curriculum_2023%20_merged-1.pdf )

                         1. Biotechnology and Biosystems Engineering
                                a. Synthetic biology
                                b. Cell and gene therapy; drug delivery
                         2. Catalysis and Reaction Engineering
                                a. Experimental catalysis
                                b. Membrane synthesis and technologies
                                c. Battery material development and scale-up
                         3. Soft Matter
                                a. Sustainable materials and the circular
                                   economy of materials
                                b. Aerosol reaction engineering and aerosol
                                   nanomaterials
                         4. Process Systems and Controls Engineering
                                a. Process       Systems      Engineering    for
                                   Sustainability
                                b. AI/ML in process design and operations
                         5. Complex Flows
                                a. Experimental fluid and granular mechanics
                                b. Mathematical methods and computational
                                   algorithms for complex fluid flows
                         6. Thermodynamics and Molecular Simulations
                                a. Quantum simulation of reactions on quantum
                                   computers
                                b. Charge transfer theory
                                c. Molecular Modelling for Sustainability

4     Chemistry       (a) Metalloenzymes.
                      (b) Main group inorganic chemistry.
                      (c) Synthesis of new organometallic compounds and their
                      applications
                      (d) Total synthesis (or isolation) of natural products with a
                      focus on drug discovery.
                      (e) Asymmetric synthesis and catalysis
                      (f) Data-driven (AI/ML) synthetic organic chemistry with a
                      focus on catalysis/drug discovery.
                      (g) Synthetic polymer chemistry with a focus on
                      sustainability.
                      (h) Biosynthesis/Sustainability / Biocatalysis / Synthetic
                      Biology bearing translational potentials.
                      (i) Advanced spectroscopy and microscopy techniques with
                      focus on any of the following:
                      Multidimensional spectroscopy/ microscopy; Scanning
                      tunnelling spectroscopy and Single-molecule electronics;
                      Plasmonics,      Surface-plasmon       resonance     imaging,
Sr.   Academic Unit       Areas of Specialization
No.

                          Near-field scanning optical microscopy and Tip-enhanced
                          (IR/Raman) microscopy/ spectroscopy; interferometric
                          scattering microscopy, Chiro-optical and CPL imaging,
                          Super-resolution fluorescence imaging and nanoscopy.
                          (j) Multi-modal, time resolved spectroscopy/microscopy (not
                          limited to) to probe reaction intermediates/products/
                          mechanisms at solid-liquid and solid-gas interfaces
                          (heterogeneous catalysis and electrochemical reactions).
                          (k) Cryogenic electron microscopy in biological/materials
                          science.

                          *Exceptional candidates in all fields will be considered.

5     Civil Engineering   1] CE1 (Transportation System Engineering):
                          (1-i) Pavement materials, analysis, design and maintenance
                          (1-ii) Transit planning and operations
                          (1-iii) Air Transportation Planning and Operations
                          (1-iv) Transportation Economics and Finance*
                          (1-v) Advanced technologies in Transportation such as
                          shared mobility, Connected and Autonomous vehicles#

                          *For the “Transportation Economics and Finance” area,
                          candidates with 4-year UG degree in Economics,
                          Mechanical, Electrical/ Electronics, Operations Research,
                          and PG in the fields of Transportation Economics and
                          Financing, Transportation logistics and supply chain and
                          Transportation policy are also eligible to apply.

                          #For “Advanced technologies in Transportation” area, 4-year
                          UG degree in Mechanical, Electrical/Electronics, and PG in
                          the field of advanced technologies in transportation are also
                          eligible to apply.

                          2] CE2 (Geotechnical Engineering):
                          (2-i) Rock Engineering;
                          (2-ii) Centrifuge modelling of Geotechnical structures;
                          (2-iii) Environmental Geotechnology;
                          (2-iv) Soft Ground Engineering.

                          3] CE3 (Water Resources Engineering):
                          (3-i) River Engineering;
                          (3-ii) Groundwater Hydrology;
                          (3-iii) Computational fluid dynamics in water resources
                          engineering;
                          (3-iv) Experimental hydraulics;
                          (3-v) Instrumentation in water resources engineering; and
                          (3-vi) Environmental fluid dynamics

                          4] CE4 (Structural Engineering):
                          (4-i) Structural Performance under Natural and Man-made
                          Hazards;
                          (4-ii) Mechanics of Advanced Materials;
Sr.   Academic Unit        Areas of Specialization
No.

                           (4-iii) Computational Mechanics;
                           (4-iv) Steel and Composite Structures; and
                           (4-v) Digitalization and Automation in Structural Engineering

                           5] CE5 (Ocean Engineering):
                           (5-i) Ocean & Wave Modelling;
                           (5-ii) Physical Oceanography;
                           (5-iii) Offshore Engineering*;
                           (5-iv) Maritime Engineering*

                           *For “Offshore Engineering” and "Maritime Engineering"
                           area, 4-year UG degree in Mechanical, Aerospace, Marine
                           Engineering, Naval Architecture, and Ocean Engineering
                           are also eligible to apply.

                           6] CE6 (Remote Sensing):
                           (6-i) Photogrammetry
                           (6-ii) Remote Sensing applications in atmospheric sciences
                           or oceanography
                           (6-iii) Geodesy
                           (6-iv) GeoAI, Geocomputation, Geographic information
                           science*
                           (6-v) LiDAR Surveying*

                           *For the research areas "GeoAI, Geocomputation,
                           Geographic information science", and "LiDAR Surveying"
                           candidates with 4 year UG degree in Geoinformatics/
                           Electrical/Electronics engineering are also eligible to apply.

                           7] CE7 (Construction Technology and Management):
                           (7-i) Construction Robotics
                           (7-ii) Computational modelling/simulation of concrete
                           behaviour (Hydration, Durability)
                           (7-iii) Fracture Mechanics of Concrete

                           In addition to the above, following areas of specialization are
                           also invited
                           (8-i) Urban Planning#
                           (8-ii) Urban Informatics#
                           (8-iii) Building Physics#
                           # For the research area “Urban Planning,” “Urban
                           Informatics” and “Building Physics”, Bachelors in
                           Architecture are also eligible to apply.

6     Computer Science &   Applicants with expertise in all areas in computer science
      Engineering          and engineering, including but not limited to Natural
                           Language     Processing, Quantum Computing, High
                           Performance Computing, Human Computer Interaction, and
                           Computational Biology and Bioinformatics are welcome.

                           Exceptional candidates      from related areas are also
                           encouraged to apply.
Sr.   Academic Unit            Areas of Specialization
No.

7     Earth Sciences              1.  Groundwater Hydrogeology
                                  2.  Engineering Geology
                                  3.  Structural Geology
                                  4.  Mineral Exploration/Mining Geology
                                  5.  Computational Geosciences
                                  6.  Quantitative Geomorphology
                                  7.  Planetary Geosciences
                                  8.  Quantitative Seismic Interpretation/Seismic
                                      Reservoir Characterization
                                  9. Petrophysics related to petroleum exploration
                                  10. Geophysical Modeling
                                  11. Geophysical Signal Processing
                                  12. Sustainable mining

8     Economics                Development   Economics,        International    Economics,
                               Macroeconomics, Monetary         Economics,     and Public
                               Economics.

9     Electrical Engineering   1. Communication Theory, Systems and Networks:
                               Millimeter-Wave/Microwave Circuits, Systems & Antennas,
                               Communication        Systems       Hardware,     Optical
                               Communication, Quantum Communication, Information
                               Theory, Cryptography; Multimedia Signal Processing;
                               Machine Learning and Big Data.

                               2. Theoretical and computational methods in the area of
                               control    including      Computational/numerical   methods:
                               Nonlinear, optimal and robust control, Optimization and
                               semidefinite programming, Complex networks/systems,
                               Adaptive control, Game theory, Model Predictive control,
                               Stochastic/uncertain systems, Randomized algorithms,
                               System      identification/estimation,  Intelligent systems,
                               biologically-inspired methods, evolutionary computing, Fault
                               detection, identification and fault-tolerant systems, Hybrid
                               and switched systems, Distributed, decentralized and multi-
                               agent systems

                               3. Power Electronics & Power Systems

                               4. Analog, Digital, Mixed-signal and RF Integrated Circuit &
                               System     Design,     Biomedical    circuit  &    systems,
                               Neuromorphic circuits, In-memory and near-memory
                               computing

                               5. Digital System Design, Test and Manufacturing:
                               System-on Chip, DFM, Computer Architecture & Hardware,
                               Algorithm-to-Chip Level Design, Computer-Aided-Design
                               (CAD) in VLSI

                               6. Semiconductor Devices and Technology: Fabrication,
                               Characterization,    Packaging,   and      Reliability;
                               Optoelectronics (Sensors); Quantum Technologies and
Sr.   Academic Unit           Areas of Specialization
No.

                              Applications;        Power      Semiconductor        Devices;
                              Bioelectronic/Biomimetic Devices, Energy Conversion and
                              Storage; Oxide Electronics and MEMS/NEMS, Bio and
                              flexible electronics, logic memory AI, Photovoltaics

                              Exceptional candidates from other areas of Electrical
                              Engineering will also be considered.

10    Energy Science and      (1) Solar-thermal energy systems
      Engineering
                              Essential Qualifications: (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s
                              Degree in Mechanical or Energy Engineering; (b) Ph.D. in
                              area related to solar-thermal energy systems.

                              Desirable: Combination of experimental and modeling
                              experience is preferred, with emphasis on concentrated
                              solar thermal applications.

                              2. Energy Policy

                              Essential Qualifications: (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s
                              Degree in Science or Engineering or Economics; (b) Ph.D.
                              in area related to Energy Policy with emphasis on energy
                              supply, demand and consumption; energy scenarios
                              modeling; and technology assessment and forecasting at
                              the national level.

                              Desirable: Experience in energy scenarios modeling and
                              technology assessment and forecasting; Publications in
                              journals related to energy and energy policy.

                              3. Recycling of materials

                              Essential Qualifications: (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s
                              Degree in Mechanical or Energy or Chemical or Materials
                              and Metallurgical Engineering; (b) Ph.D. in area related to
                              recycling    of   materials    from    end-of-life   energy
                              systems-batteries, solar PV panels, wind turbine blades, etc.
                              with focus on experiments.

                              Desirable: Work related to systems level.

                              Exceptional candidates in all areas relevant to the academic
                              unit will also be considered.

11    Environmental Science   Outstanding candidates in all areas of environmental
      and Engineering         science and engineering are encouraged to apply.
                              Preference will be given to applicants who have
                              demonstrated research and teaching expertise in the areas
                              listed below:

                                 ●   Advanced Water and Wastewater Treatment for
Sr.   Academic Unit            Areas of Specialization
No.

                                      Emerging Contaminants.
                                  ●   Air Pollution: Atmospheric Modelling; Multi-Pollutant
                                      Exposure, Toxicology.
                                  ●   Climate Technology & Greenhouse Gas Mitigation.
                                  ●   Critical Minerals Recovery from Waste.
                                  ●   Environmental Data Analytics: Using AI/ML and/or
                                      Remote Sensing and GIS.
                                  ●   Environmental        Ecology:       Climate-Resilient
                                      Ecosystems and Biodiversity.
                                  ●   Environmental Microbiology.
                                  ●   Environmental Noise Pollution, Acoustics and
                                      Control.
                                  ●   Environmental Sustainability and Circular Economy.
                                  ●   Environmental Systems Modelling: Contaminant
                                      Fate and Transport.

12    Industrial Engineering   1. Industrial Engineering: Operations planning &
      and Operations           scheduling, Inventory control, Facility & work systems
      Research (IEOR)          design, Quality, Reliability, Safety, in Industrial and/ or
                               Service systems.

                               2. Digital Enterprise & Automation: Digitalisation & Digital
                               Twinning, Industrial IoT, Edge computing, Cyber-Physical
                               systems, Blockchain, Security, Robotics.

                               3. Data Science: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning,
                               Reinforcement     Learning,    Change     point   detection,
                               Computational Data Science, Human-AI interaction, Deep
                               Learning, Large language models, Generative AI.

                               4. IEOR Applications to areas such as Transportation &
                               Mobility, Logistics, Supply Chain, Healthcare, Finance,
                               Energy, Sustainability, Public Sector Organizations,
                               Defence.

                               5. Operations Research: Optimisation, Stochastic
                               processes, Stochastic control, Game theory, Simulation,
                               System dynamics, Approximation & randomized algorithms,
                               Meta-heuristics, Network science, Quantum Computing.

                               Candidates with exceptional credentials in any area of IE
                               and OR, in addition to the above specific areas, may be
                               considered.

                               Desirable:
                               ● For Area 1, UG and/or PG degree in Industrial
                               Engineering or equivalent is desirable.
                               ● For Area 2, Experience in using, installing and/or
                               maintaining relevant equipment, sensors, etc. with adequate
                               exposure to experimentation, numerical modelling and
                               computations is desirable.
Sr.   Academic Unit            Areas of Specialization
No.

13    Mathematics              The Mathematics department is seeking strong applications
                               across all areas of Mathematics. However, the following two
                               are the focus areas where the department actively
                               encourages applications:

                               • Statistics (both theoretical and applied)
                               • Combinatorics

14    Mechanical Engineering   (1) AI/ML and Computational Engineering: (1-i)
                               Development of AI/ML Techniques-based Computational
                               Methodology       for     Thermo-fluids   engineering;     (1-ii)
                               Data-Driven Constitutive modeling of Cells, Tissues, and
                               Organs; and (1-iii) Digital Manufacturing (system simulation,
                               digital threads, digital twins, and manufacturing analytics).

                               (2) Biomechanical Engineering: (2-i) Biomedical flows,
                               (2-ii) Bio-heat transfer; (2-iii) Kinematics and dynamics of
                               human/animal locomotion; and (2-iv) 3D-Organ Printing.

                               (3) Heat Transfer, Combustion and Energy Systems: (3-i)
                               Refrigeration, Air-conditioning, Cryogenics, and heat pumps;
                               (3-ii) Thermal Management of EV batteries and data
                               centers; (3-iii) Hydrogen combustion; (3-iv) Radiative heat
                               transfer for defense and space applications; and (3-v)
                               Nuclear Engineering, Neutronics and Radiation Detection.

                               (4) Manufacturing Processes, Systems & Automation:
                               (4-i) Metal Casting (low-pressure and high-pressure die
                               casting); (4-ii) Manufacturing Systems, Operation modeling
                               and analysis; (4-iii) Manufacturing Automation and Control;
                               (4-iv) Polymer processing; (4-v) Machine health monitoring
                               and prognostics; (4-vi) Semiconductor fabrication and
                               metrology; and (4-vii) Optical and biomedical device
                               fabrication.

                               (5) Materials Modeling and Characterization: (5-i)
                               Advanced experimental in-situ mechanics (high temperature
                               materials, short time scales and high spatial resolution);
                               (5-ii) Reliability, mechanics and failure of integrated circuits
                               and data storage devices; and (5-iii) Advanced
                               Non-Destructive       Evaluation   (Infrared     thermography,
                               Non-Linear Ultrasonics, Tomography, TeraHz radio wave
                               imaging)

                               (6) Micro/Nano Science and Engineering: (6-i)
                               Experimental Transport Phenomena of Complex Fluids; and
                               (6-ii) Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics.

                               (7) Robotics, Dynamics, and Control: (7-i) Multi-agent
                               robotic systems; and (7-ii) Engineering Acoustics and
                               industrial noise control.
Sr.   Academic Unit             Areas of Specialization
No.

                                (8) Solid and Fluid Mechanics: (8-i) Tribology; and (8-ii)
                                Fluid dynamics for Wind and Hydro Energy Applications.

                                In addition to the above specific areas, applications from
                                candidates possessing exceptional credentials in other
                                areas are also welcome.

15    Metallurgical             (1) Battery Materials (preferably experimentalists), with
      Engineering & Materials   special emphasis on Solid-State Batteries.
      Science                   (2) Multiferroic Materials and Devices.
                                (3) Semiconductor Materials: Thin films Processing and
                                Devices.
                                (4) Manufacturing (materials joining, additive manufacturing,
                                casting, forming)
                                (5) Physical Metallurgy (preferably experimentalists)
                                (6) Glass/Ceramics Process Engineering
                                (7) Extraction and processing of non-ferrous metals,
                                preferably critical metals.

                                In addition to the above specific areas, applications from
                                candidates with consistent exceptional academic records
                                and outstanding research records in other areas (relevant to
                                the Department’s research and teaching interests) are also
                                welcome.

16    Physics                   ACG:
                                Galaxy evolution and high-energy astrophysics

                                Condensed Matter Physics (Experimental):
                                   1. Core/demonstrated expertise in single crystal
                                      and/or epitaxial growth
                                   2. Core/demonstrated expertise in emergent areas
                                      of superconductivity/quantum              magnetism/
                                      spintronics/ topological systems (materials and
                                      devices)
                                   3. Core/demonstrated expertise in Time-resolved
                                      experiments to study different ultrafast processes in
                                      materials.

                                Condensed Matter Physics (Theory):
                                   1. Development and application of machine learning in
                                      quantum condensed matter
                                   2. DFT+DMFT approach to strongly correlated
                                      systems
                                   3. Quantum many body physics using artificial
                                      quantum platforms
                                   4. Analytical approaches to topics such as
                                      non-equilibrium quantum dynamics, topological and
                                      interacting systems.
Sr.   Academic Unit             Areas of Specialization
No.

                                High-energy Physics (Experimental):
                                   1. Heavy ion/p-A/p-p collisions at collider energies:
                                      Hardware development
                                   2. Experimental low-energy nuclear physics

                                High-energy Physics (Theory):
                                   1. Astro-particle physics
                                   2. Beyond Standard model and collider physics
                                   3. Perturbative and non-perturbative QCD
                                   4. String theory and mathematical aspects of quantum
                                      field theory

                                Optics/Photonics:
                                   1. Experimental ion trap/cold atom physics
                                   2. Experimental quantum optics
                                   3. Experimental/Theoretical       strong-field         and
                                       attosecond physics

                                Quantum Information (Theory):
                                Fundamental theoretical research in quantum information
                                theory with applications in quantum algorithms, quantum
                                communication, quantum sensing, quantum error
                                correction, and light-based quantum technologies

                                Soft-matter Physics:

                                Experimental soft matter physics and physics of
                                biological systems:
                                    1. Experimental soft matter physics, active matter
                                       physics and the physics of biological systems:
                                       Equilibrium and non-equilibrium phenomena in
                                       complex fluids
                                    2. Study of self-assembly in soft matter systems and
                                       collective behavior, using techniques such as light
                                       microscopy, AFM, electron microscopy, optical
                                       tweezers, X-ray scattering

                                Theoretical statistical physics with a focus on
                                analytical techniques:
                                   1. Analytical theories of model systems in and out of
                                       equilibrium.
                                   2. Coarse-grained statistical field theories of non-
                                       equilibrium/active systems
                                   3. Stochastic             thermodynamics         and
                                       information-theoretic approaches to biological
                                       systems

17    Ashank Desai Centre for   The Centre is looking for candidates in areas of Public
      Policy Studies            Policy with particular background in:

                                (1) Digital Societies and Governance
                                (2) Social Policy (with Special Focus on Health)
Sr.   Academic Unit            Areas of Specialization
No.

                               (3) Urban Policy
                               (4) Technology and Policy
                               (5) Water, Sanitation, Energy and Climate Change
                               (6) Industrial and Economic Policy

18    Centre for Climate       (1) Climate Impacts and Adaptions: Climate and Health
      Studies                  (2) Climate Mitigation and Policy: Mitigation and
                               Development Pathways, National and Sub-National Policies

                               In addition, outstanding applications in any area of climate
                               studies will be considered.

19    Centre for Defence          (1) AI/ML application for Cyber Defence
      Technology Innovations      (2) Computer Vision application for intelligence,
      and Strategies (CDTIS)          surveillance, target acquisition, and reconnaissance
                                  (3) Reliability Modelling and Maintenance optimization
                                      of equipment (experience with military equipment
                                      preferred)
                                  (4) Human reliability assessment
                                  (5) Digital Twins and Digital Twin platforms for military
                                      applications
                                  (6) Intelligent unmanned vehicles
                                  (7) National and International Security Scenarios and
                                      Trends
                                  (8) Strategic Technology Diplomacy & International
                                      Cooperation
                                  (9) Civil-Military Strategic Technology Capacity Building

20    Centre for Educational   Development      of    technology    enhanced     learning
      Technology               environments for various purposes; Discipline based
                               education research, in engineering, sciences or computing
                               disciplines; Learning sciences and cognition; Learner
                               modeling using educational data analytics; Teacher use of
                               educational technology; Assessment and evaluation;
                               Technology for foundational literacy and numeracy; Social
                               justice research in the context of technology enhanced
                               learning.

                               Experience with using technology tools for building
                               interventions and carrying out research studies is essential.

21    Centre for Machine       Data Sciences; Machine Learning; Artificial Intelligence;
      Intelligence and Data    Statistics; Knowledge Representation, Machine Learning
      Science (C-MinDS)        theory; Generative and Agentic AI, Data and information
                               systems; AI/ML in Text, Speech, and Natural Language
                               Processing; Computer Vision; Robotics and Autonomous
                               Systems; Systems and Computational issues in AI/ML/DS;
                               AI/ML/DS in Science and Engineering application areas
                               including Finance, Health, Sustainability, Transportation,
                               Mechanics, Industry. Social choice, Game theory, Multiagent
                               systems; AI and Society, Policies, Trust, Ethics; Any other
                               significant AI/ML area.
Sr.   Academic Unit          Areas of Specialization
No.

22    Centre for             Advanced Packaging
      Semiconductor
      Technologies (SemiX)      ●   Heterogeneous Integration, 2.5D/3D Packaging -
                                    Design (Mechanical/Thermal) and fabrication.
                                ●   Materials and Process Technologies for Backside
                                    Power and Signal Delivery.
                                ●   Materials and Process Technologies for Advanced
                                    Packaging (2.5D/3D/ Chiplet).
                                ●   Advanced      Substrates      with fine-pitch RDLs
                                    (Multilayer organic, Glass panel).
                                ●   Thermal      heat    dissipation in semiconductor
                                    packaging (1st level packaging)

                             Semiconductor Manufacturing

                                ●   Electronic Design Automation
                                ●   Wafer Fab Equipment Development
                                ●   Semiconductor Metrology
                                ●   Semiconductor Test & Quality Control
                                ●   Process control and manufacturing yield

                             Semiconductors for Display

                                ●   Materials, Processes, and Devices for LED Displays

                             Semiconductors for High Performance              Computing
                             (HPC, including AI and quantum hardware)

                                ●   Logic & Memory: Materials including silicon ingots
                                    and wafers, Process and Device Technology
                                ●   Digital & AMS Design, Microprocessor, AI
                                    Accelerators
                                ●   Neuromorphic Engineering
                                ●   Materials, Processes, Devices for Quantum
                                    Technologies
                                ●   Computing Systems, Architecture and Algorithms
                                ●   Computing Systems Design and Packaging

                             Power Semiconductors

                                ●   Materials, Processes, Devices and Modules for
                                    Power Management
                                ●   Thermal conductive substrates for high-power
                                    applications
                                ●   Power Management IC Design
                                ●   Power Semiconductor Packaging

                             Semiconductors for High-speed Communications

                                ●   Wireline and Optical Circuits
                                ●   Materials, Processes, Devices and Packaging for RF
                                    and Terahertz Electronics
Sr.   Academic Unit            Areas of Specialization
No.

                                  ●   Materials, Processes, Devices and Packaging for
                                      Photonics

                               Semiconductors for Sensing

                                  ●   Materials, Processes and Devices for Sensors,
                                      including, MEMS, PiezoMEMS, Optical MEMS
                                  ●   Sensor Circuit and System Design, including
                                      CMOS-MEMS Co-integration, MEMS and Sensor
                                      Packaging

                               Outstanding candidates with expertise in other areas of
                               semiconductor engineering are also encouraged to apply.

23    Centre for Systems and   Core areas of dynamical systems and control, autonomous
      Control Engineering      systems, robotics, distributed control, quantum control,
                               learning, and data sciences. Emerging areas of control and
                               decision sciences interacting with classical and quantum
                               information,     inference    theory,    complex   systems,
                               high-dimensional phenomena, networking and security,
                               model approximation, communication, signal processing,
                               flexible structures and systems biology.

                               Candidates with strong foundational and/or translational
                               research in the above mentioned core and emerging areas
                               applied to autonomous vehicles, vision, robotics, aerial and
                               space technology, quantum systems, defense technology
                               and fintech are welcome to apply.

24    Centre for Technology    Science and Technology applications towards sustainable
      Alternatives for Rural   development using concepts in the following thematic areas:
      Areas (C-TARA)
                               (1) Public Policy and Governance
                               (2) Development, Technology, and Society
                               (3) Technology, Development, and Dissemination
                               (4) Agriculture and Food Technology
                               (5) Ecology and Livelihoods
                               (6) Inclusive Design, Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the
                               Rural Context.

25    Centre for Traditional      ●   Indian Mathematics and Astronomy
      Indian Knowledge and        ●   Linguistics and Language Technology
      Skills (CTIKS)              ●   Yoga and Wellness Science
                                  ●   Ancient Water Management Systems
                                  ●   Conservation of Heritage Structures
                                  ●   Indian Financial and Business Models
                                  ●   Traditional Indian Skills

26    Centre of Studies in     (1) Computer Vision (CV) with focus on Satellite data
      Resources Engineering    processing.
      (CSRE)                   (2) Microwave remote sensing
                               (3) Geospatial Applications in Hydrology, Hydroinformatics
Sr.   Academic Unit              Areas of Specialization
No.

                                 and water resources
                                 (4) Geo AI with application to earth system sciences
                                 (5) Geospatial Data Science
                                 (6) Atmospheric Science
                                 (7) Urban Remote Sensing
                                 (8) Lithosphere study and mineral resources
                                 (9) Photogrammetry, GNSS, GPS, LiDAR, Surveying and
                                 Geodesy
                                 (10) Agro-informatics and precision agriculture
                                 (11) Oceanography, Coastal and Marine studies
                                 (12) Natural Hazards and Disaster Management
                                 (13) Forestry and Ecology

27    Koita Centre for Digital   (1) AI ML and Large Language Models for Healthcare and
      Health (KCDH)              biomedical informatics.
                                 (2) Computational aspects of biomedical science and
                                 engineering, Multi-omics.
                                 (3) Healthcare devices, Physiological Monitoring and
                                 biomedical signal analysis.
                                 (4) Data driven healthcare policy study, and health
                                 economics.
                                 (5) Quantitative Public Health, disease modelling and
                                 epidemiology.

28    Motilal Oswal Centre for   (1) Market Microstructure.
      Capital Markets            (2) Asset Pricing, and Portfolio Management.
                                 (3) Financial Data Science, and AI in Banking, Financial
                                 Markets, and Insurance.
                                 (4) Financial Engineering, and Risk Management.
                                 (5) Banking, Fintech, Crypto Assets, Digital Finance.
                                 (6) Green and Sustainable Finance, ESG Investing.
                                 (7) Fixed Income, Currency, and Commodity Markets.
                                 (8) Governance and Regulation of Financial Institutions and
                                 Markets.
                                 (9) Financial Inclusion and Market Access.
                                 (10) Global and Emerging Financial Markets.
                                 (11) Algorithmic Finance.
                                 (12) Financial Stability and Systemic Risk.
                                 (13) Computational Finance.
                                 (14) LLMs in Finance.
                                 (15) Alternative Investments

29    Desai Sethi School of         (1) Technology entrepreneurship: product design,
      Entrepreneurship                  development,      innovation,    IP    management,
                                        technology licensing.
                                    (2) Business models for startups; leadership & team
                                        building for new ventures.
                                    (3) Innovation, incubation, entrepreneurship ecosystem,
                                        commercialization, policy, education, corporate
                                        entrepreneurship.
                                    (4) Process      of  innovation    & entrepreneurship,
                                        sustainability, energy transitions, climate change,
Sr.   Academic Unit          Areas of Specialization
No.

                                    entrepreneurship in MSMEs.

30    IDC School of Design   Industrial Design, Mobility & Vehicle Design, 3D Animation,
                             Interaction Design, Game Design, Service Design.

31    Shailesh J. Mehta      (1) Accounting and Finance
      School of Management   (2) Human Resources Management
                             (3) Information Systems/Technology
                             (4) Marketing Management
                             (5) Operations Management
                             (6) Organizational Behaviour
                             (7) Strategic Management
                             (8) Technology/Innovation Management
                             (9) Competitiveness
                             (10) Applications of AI and Data Science in Management

                             (Mere fulfilment of eligibility criteria doesn’t entitle a
                             candidate to be shortlisted)
