                          Rolling Advertisement No. L-10/25-26
                          Assistant Professor Eligibility Criteria

Sr.   Academic         Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No    Unit

1     Aerospace        Candidates should preferably hold an undergraduate/post graduate
      Engineering      degree in Aerospace/Aeronautical Engineering. Further, candidates
                       should have completed a Ph.D. in the advertised areas of
                       specialization.
                       Candidates who do not have a Ph.D. in the advertised areas of
                       specialization but have a minimum of two years of postdoctoral
                       research experience in the advertised areas of specialization may
                       also be considered.
                       Candidates should have a minimum of FIVE (5) publications in
                       reputed refereed journals and conference proceedings at the time of
                       the application, of which at least THREE (3) should be in
                       Scopus/SCI-indexed       journals. Industry experience will be
                       appropriately evaluated.

2     Biosciences &    Candidates with research work in biosciences should have a minimum
      Bioengineering   of FIVE (5) original refereed international publications in Scopus /
                       PubMed / Web of Science (or equivalent) indexed journals as first
                       author or as first author with equal contribution.
                       Candidates with research work in biomedical engineering should have
                       a minimum of THREE (3) original refereed international publications in
                       Scopus / PubMed /Web of Science (or equivalent) indexed journals as
                       first author or as first author with equal contribution.
                       A granted patent may be considered as equivalent to an original
                       research publication in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed journals.
                       A full paper in an international peer-reviewed conference proceeding
                       of a reputed professional society may be considered as equivalent to
                       an original research publication in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed
                       journals.
                       Development efforts (technology, product, process, protocols, etc.)
                       that have reached a stage of maturity viz., peer-reviewed
                       demonstration of proof-of-concept e.g., in the form of acceptance by a
                       funding agency or an industry for enhancement of Technology
                       Readiness Level (TRL), deployment, etc., may be considered as
                       equivalent to an original research publication in Scopus (or
                       equivalent) indexed journals.
                       For "Extraordinary candidates, the requirement on the number of
                       papers may be relaxed"

3     Chemical         (A) Candidates working in the broad research areas related to
      Engineering      chemical engineering and having at least one degree in Chemical
                       Engineering (UG/PG/Ph.D.) will be considered. Candidates without a
                       degree in Chemical Engineering will be considered only in exceptional
                       cases, provided their primary research aligns with one
Sr.   Academic Unit       Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                          of the designated sub-areas (a, b, etc.) within the six broad
                          research areas of Chemical Engineering and are able to teach
                          courses considered integral to the discipline - Chemical
                          Engineering Thermodynamics, Chemical Reaction Engineering,
                          Introduction to Transport Phenomena, and Introduction to
                          Numerical Analysis.

                          (B) Candidates should also have a minimum of THREE (3)
                          research publications in reputed journals included in Scopus/SCI
                          index in areas related to Chemical Engineering.

4     Chemistry           Candidates should have a basic degree in Chemistry, should have
                          a minimum of FIVE (5) publications in Scopus/SCI indexed
                          internationally reputed journals, out of which at least TWO (2)
                          publications must originate from post Ph.D. work.

5     Civil Engineering   The candidates should have a strong academic and research
                          background with Ph.D., including a 4-year undergraduate (UG)
                          Degree in Civil Engineering or as specified against the areas of
                          specialization.

                          Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications in
                          SCI-indexed reputed journals related to the advertised areas. The
                          quality will be evaluated based on SCI Impact Factor (IF) and
                          relative IF ranking in that field of specialization. The papers should
                          be already published or be in the press.

                          Research grants received / Teaching or Industry experience /
                          Significant National or International awards will be considered as an
                          additional advantage.

                          Patents and Books: (a) A granted Patent with the candidate as
                          main contributor will be counted as equivalent to one published
                          journal paper. (b) Textbook / Book chapter published by reputed
                          publisher will be considered as an additional advantage.

6     Computer            Publications:
      Science &           (1) Candidates should have a minimum of TWO (2) publications
      Engineering         during their Ph.D. in reputed (*) conferences or journals in
                          computer science and engineering and related areas, with at least
                          one of these being in a top-tier forum (*).
                          (2) Two (2) granted patents can count as one publication, but
                          papers and patents representing the same work are not
                          double-counted. A maximum of 2 granted patents can be counted
                          as a publication in this manner.
                          (3) Note (*): “Reputed” is defined as rank B or higher either in the
                          Core portal (https://www.core.edu.au/) OR in the Department
                          Publication Ranking List and a suitable addendum/corrigendum that
                          may be required. Further, “top-tier” is defined as rank A or higher in
                          the same lists.
Sr.   Academic Unit    Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                       Post-Ph.D.
                       (1) Candidates with research experience after Ph.D. are expected
                       to have correspondingly commensurate higher research
                       achievements in addition to the above requirements. This clause
                       does not apply to those with non-research experience post Ph.D.

7     Earth Sciences   For all positions in Geology (Groundwater Hydrogeology,
                       Engineering Geology, Structural Geology, Mineral Exploration/
                       Mining Geology, Computational Geosciences, Quantitative
                       Geomorphology, Planetary Geosciences):
                       Essential Qualifications:
                       (a) M.Sc / M.Sc (Tech)/ M.Tech degree in Geology or in any of the
                       fields related to Geology.
                       (b) Ph.D. in the relevant field of Geology
                       Desirable: Experience in running and maintaining relevant
                       equipment, with adequate exposure to experimentation and all
                       aspects of field geology, computation and numerical modelling.
                       ii) For all positions related to Geophysics (Quantitative Seismic
                       Interpretation/Seismic Reservoir Characterization,
                       Petrophysics related to petroleum exploration, Geophysical
                       Modelling, Geophysical Signal Processing) :

                       Essential Qualifications:
                       (a) M.Sc / M.Sc (Tech)/ M.Tech degree in Geophysics or in any of
                       the fields related to Geophysics.
                       (b) Ph.D. in the relevant field of Geophysics.

                       Desirable: Industrial experience in the fields related to petroleum
                       exploration, with experience in quantitative and/or qualitative
                       seismic interpretation. Experience in the application of AI and ML
                       techniques to geophysical applications.

                       iii) For the position related to Mining Engineering (Sustainable
                       mining):

                       Essential Qualifications:
                       (a) B.Tech degree in Mining Engineering.
                       (b) Ph.D. in Mining with specialization in Mine Planning, Mineral
                       Economics, Environmental/Sustainable Mining, and Management.

                       Desirable: Relevant Industrial / Research experience in mine
                       digitalization and automation, mining technology, safety and digital
                       mining are also encouraged.

                       For all above areas of specialization, candidates should have
                       published a minimum of FOUR (4) research papers in SCI-indexed
                       journals in the relevant area of research. The candidate must be
                       one of the first two authors or the corresponding author in all four
                       papers.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

8     Economics         Consistently good academic performance: PhD, with First Class or
                        equivalent (in terms of Grades etc.), at the preceding degree and a
                        good academic record throughout; candidates must have been
                        awarded the Ph.D. degree at the time of applying.

                        (A) Experience: At least 3 years of Post Ph.D research /teaching
                        /industry experience [including Postdoctoral research experience].
                        Those who do not have adequate experience, but fulfil the eligibility
                        criteria may be considered for contractual appointment in the rank
                        of Assistant Professor.

                        (B) Performance: Published 3 good papers of which at least two of
                        them should be in reputed peer reviewed journals [Scopus
                        /ABDC/ABS or equivalent ranked/indexed journals].

9     Electrical           ●   In areas pertaining to semiconductor devices – their
      Engineering              modeling, fabrication and characterization, a minimum of
                               FOUR (4) high quality papers in tier-one SCI journals.
                           ●   In other areas like Power, Control, Communications, Circuits
                               and Systems, a minimum of TWO (2) high quality papers in
                               tier-one SCI journals.
                           ●   Conference Publications: Top tier conferences, which have
                               a rigorous peer-review process, and in which the full version
                               of the paper has to be submitted right at the stage of review,
                               will also be considered to be equivalent to journal papers.
                           ●   Post-Doctoral Experience: It is preferable to have a
                               postdoctoral/industry experience in the relevant areas.

10    Energy Science    1. Solar-thermal energy systems
      and Engineering
                        Essential Qualifications:
                        (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy
                        Engineering;
                        (b) Ph.D. in area related to solar-thermal energy systems.

                        Desirable: Combination of experimental and modeling experience
                        is preferred, with emphasis on concentrated solar thermal
                        applications.

                        Publications: Candidates should have a minimum of three (3)
                        publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
                        science and engineering related areas.

                        2. Energy Policy

                        Essential Qualifications:
                        (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Science or Engineering or
                        Economics;
                        (b) Ph.D. in area related to Energy Policy with emphasis on energy
                        supply, demand and consumption; energy scenarios modeling; and
                        technology assessment and forecasting at the national level.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                        Desirable: Experience in energy scenarios modeling and
                        technology assessment and forecasting; Publications in journals
                        related to energy and energy policy.

                        Publications: Candidates should have a minimum of three (3)
                        publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
                        science and engineering related areas.

                        3. Recycling of materials

                        Essential Qualifications:
                        (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy or
                        Chemical or Materials and Metallurgical Engineering;
                        (b) Ph.D. in area related to recycling of materials from end-of-life
                        energy systems-batteries, solar PV panels, wind turbine blades,
                        etc. with focus on experiments.

                        Desirable: Work related to systems level.

                        Publications: Candidates should have a minimum of three (3)
                        publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
                        science and engineering related areas.

                        Exceptional candidates in all areas relevant to the academic unit
                        will also be considered.

11    Environmental     The candidate must possess Ph.D. and M.Tech./ M.E./ M.S. with
      Science and       research focus in Environmental Science/ Engineering from
      Engineering       reputed    Institutes. Also,    the   candidate    should    have
                        B.Tech./B.E./B.S. in Environmental/ Civil/ Chemical/ Mechanical
                        Engineering/ Biotechnology and allied disciplines or M.Sc. in
                        Environmental Science and allied disciplines. The candidate who
                        has done a Ph.D. directly after completing B.Tech./B.E./B.S. must
                        have undergone substantial course work in Environmental Science/
                        Engineering.

                        Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications in
                        Scopus/SCI index reputed journals.

                        Each patent granted will be considered as equivalent to a quality
                        publication in a reputed international journal.

12    Industrial        Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications in
      Engineering and   reputed journals or refereed conference proceedings in the areas
      Operations        related to industrial engineering or operations research.
      Research (IEOR)
                        Journals and conference proceedings listed in Scopus or SCI or
                        CORE or ABDC or AMS MathSciNet will be considered as reputed.
                        Other journals and conference proceedings that are considered as
                        reputed by the department will be listed at www.ieor.iitb.ac.in
Sr.   Academic Unit       Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

13    Mathematics         Candidates should have published a minimum of THREE (3)
                          publications in journals listed in AMS MathSciNet in the areas of
                          Mathematics or Statistics.

14    Mechanical          (i) Candidates should hold an undergraduate degree in engineering
      Engineering         (BE/BTech). Further, candidates should have completed PhD in the
                          advertised areas of specialization. Candidates who do not have
                          PhD in the advertised areas of specialization, but have a minimum
                          of two years of postdoctoral research experience in the advertised
                          areas of specialization will also be considered. Candidates without
                          an undergraduate degree in engineering (BE/BTech) will be
                          considered only in exceptional cases, provided they have
                          completed PhD in the advertised areas of specialization and the
                          candidate should be able to teach core courses in mechanical
                          engineering.

                          (ii) Candidate should have published a minimum of three (03)
                          international journal papers as first author. These journals should
                          be ranked in the top two quartiles (Q1 or Q2), as per the SJR
                          (Scimago Journal & Country Rank) norms.

                          (iii) In case a candidate has post-Ph.D experience beyond 3 years,
                          the candidate should have 1 additional publication per year of
                          additional experience beyond 3 years.

                          (iv) Up to one granted patent in areas relevant to the areas of
                          specialization advertised, on which the applicant is named as an
                          inventor, will be treated equivalent to one journal paper.

15    Metallurgical       (i) Candidates who have degrees other than B.E./B.Tech should
      Engineering &       have done mathematics courses in their undergraduate or
      Materials           postgraduate or graduate studies.
      Science
                          (ii) At least THREE (3) first author research publications in reputed
                          journals included in Scopus/SCI index.

16    Physics             Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications in
                          Scopus indexed refereed journals in Physics or Astronomy during
                          Ph.D.; Additionally, an average of 1 publication per year in such
                          journals during post-Ph.D. career. Three years of post-Ph.D.
                          experience is preferred.

17    Ashank Desai        The candidate must have experience in one of the following
      Centre for Policy   6 research areas:
      Studies
                          (1) Digital Societies and Governance
                          (2) Social Policy (with Special Focus on health)
                          (3) Urban Policy
                          (4) Technology and Policy
                          (5) Water, Sanitation, Energy and Climate Change
                          (6) Industrial and Economic Policy
                          Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) Policy relevant
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                        publications in Reputed (Scopus/SCI index, JSTOR, Sage, MUSE,
                        ABDC) journals.
                        ONE (1) peer reviewed book chapter/monograph from a reputed
                        publisher can be counted as equivalent to ONE (1) publication.

18    Centre for        Publications criteria:
      Climate Studies   Candidates should have a minimum of 3 publications in Scopus/
                        SCI index journals, as first or second or corresponding author.

                        A maximum of one patent granted could be counted as equivalent
                        to one peer-reviewed journal publication.

                        Others:
                        Have research subject areas strongly aligned with IDPCS’s needs.
                        Have the ability to teach core / key courses of the IDPCS.

19    Centre for        The candidates should have a strong academic and research
      Defence           background in the advertised areas with a Ph.D. degree in STEM.
      Technology
      Innovations and   At least 3 years of Post Ph.D research /teaching /industry
      Strategies        experience [including Postdoctoral research experience]. Those
      (CDTIS)           who do not have adequate experience, but fulfil the eligibility
                        criteria may be considered for contractual appointment in the rank
                        of Assistant Professor.

                        Published at least 3 good papers (as first author) in the areas
                        advertised out of which at least two should be in reputed peer
                        reviewed    journals    [Scopus   /ABDC/ABS     or    equivalent
                        ranked/indexed journals].

                        For candidates with PhD in Computer Science/Engineering, a
                        minimum of 3 publications (as first author) during their Ph.D. in
                        reputed conferences or journals in computer science and related
                        areas, with at least one of these being in a top-tier forum is
                        required.
                        “Reputed” is defined as rank B or higher and “top-tier” is defined as
                        rank A or higher in CORE portals.

                        Research grants received / Teaching or Industry experience /
                        Significant National or International awards will be considered as an
                        additional advantage.

                        A granted Patent with the candidate as main contributor will be
                        counted as equivalent to one published journal paper.

                        Textbook / Book chapter published by reputed publisher will be
                        considered as an additional advantage.

20    Centre for        Candidates should have a minimum of two Educational Technology
      Educational       related publications in journals indexed in Scopus/SCI,
      Technology        OR
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                         one publication in journals indexed in Scopus/SCI and two
                         publications in the list of conferences identified by the department.

                         The candidate should be the first author on at least ONE (1) of the
                         publications.

                         If Ph.D. is in a discipline other than ET, the candidate should have
                         done a post-doc in ET related area, or should have research
                         publications in ET Journals/Conferences, or should have carried
                         out development projects in ET.

                         Candidates who have one or more years of post-Ph.D. experience
                         should have on an average ONE (1) publication per year of post
                         Ph.D. experience in addition to the above minimum specified;
                         papers published during/based on Ph.D. work can also be counted
                         towards this number.

                         Up to two years of work in industry or other positions that do not
                         offer scope for publication may be exempted from the additional
                         publication requirements.

21    Centre for         Publications:
      Machine            Candidates should have published a minimum of 3 papers in
      Intelligence and   reputed journals or conferences. For example, publications ranked
      Data Science       at least A as per CORE Rankings will be considered as reputed.
      (C-MinDS)          For candidates specializing in application of AI/ML in Engineering
                         and Science, reputed journals from their areas will be determined in
                         consultation with experts in that specialization.
                         Additionally, the candidates are expected to have at least one
                         publication in reputed venues per year of post Ph.D. experience.
                         Up to 8 years of work in industry or other circumstances which do
                         not offer scope for publication may be exempted from the additional
                         publication requirements. In such cases, the candidate is expected
                         to provide significant alternative evidence of technical leadership in
                         the form of patents and/or software products.

22    Centre for         (1) Qualifying degree: PhD in an area of semiconductor
      Semiconductor      engineering (background/degree may be in any engineering or
      Technologies       physical science discipline) with at least 1 year of post-PhD
      (SemiX)            experience (preferably in the industry); for candidates with PhD in
                         adjacent areas, at least 2 years of post-PhD experience in some
                         area/s of semiconductor engineering (preferably in the industry).
                         (2) Publications: At least 3 research publications in reputed
                         journals included in Scopus/SCI index, as first author, or with
                         equivalent contribution; additionally, an average of 1 such
                         publication is desirable for each year of post-PhD experience
                         beyond 1 year. The following equivalence would be applied for
                         publications, in this and the following senior levels:
                            (a) First author archived publications in the following
                                conferences would be considered equivalent to a journal
Sr.   Academic Unit        Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                                  publication: IEDM, Symposium on VLSI Tech & Circuits,
                                  ISSCC, CICC, ISPSD, IEEE MEMS, ECTC, IRPS, IRW,
                                  IMW, NeurIPS, IJCNN.
                              (b) A granted or published patent in a relevant area, in which
                                  the candidate is listed as an inventor, would be considered
                                  equivalent to a journal publication.

23    Centre for              ●   Candidates need to have a minimum of 3 publications
      Systems and                 accepted in journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE
      Control                     and/or abstracted in Mathscinet.
      Engineering             ●   In addition to the above minimum specified, the candidates
                                  need to have an average of at least 1 publication for every
                                  year after their first full year after Ph.D. that are accepted in
                                  journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or abstracted
                                  in mathscinet.
                           Each patent granted will be counted as equivalent to two journal
                           publications and each patent filed will be counted as equivalent to
                           0.5 journal publications for the above criteria.

24    Centre for           Faculty applicants should have demonstrated interest and ability to:
      Technology           (i) identify and formalise problems of relevance to broader society,
      Alternatives for     and (ii) teach in the area of technology and development.
      Rural Areas
      (C-TARA)             The candidates should have strong focus on Science and
                           Technology applications towards sustainable development using
                           concepts in the following thematic areas:
                              ● Food processing, Nutrition, and Public Health
                              ● Farm        Machinery,    Technology   Development  and
                                 Dissemination
                              ● Development, Technology, and Society
                              ● Planning and Development including Basic Services;
                                 Monitoring & Evaluation
                              ● Natural Resources, Public Policy and Governance
                           The candidates should have high quality research experience,
                           evidenced by publications in reputed journals/conferences, book
                           chapters, patents (filed and granted) and important case studies.
                           The candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications
                           in reputed international journals (Scopus/SCI indexed).

25    Centre for           Candidates must possess well-established credentials in their
      Traditional Indian   chosen discipline (Engineering / Pure and Applied Sciences / Arts /
      Knowledge and        Medicine / Design / Architecture / Management / Finance) in terms
      Skills (CTIKS)       of high-quality journal publications / peer-reviewed conference
                           proceedings / book chapters / monographs / patents.

                           Further, candidates should have good working/proven knowledge in
                           Sanskrit and demonstrable research experience in the advertised
                           areas of specialization. Exceptional candidates with research
                           experience in other specific areas of Traditional Indian Knowledge
                           and Skills may also be considered.
Sr.   Academic Unit       Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

26    Centre of Studies   The candidates should have research specialization in
      in Resources        geoinformatics, remote sensing and their applications to earth
      Engineering         system studies and related areas.
      (CSRE)
                          Candidates should have a minimum of THREE (3) publications in
                          Scopus/SCI-indexed journals. Patent(s) granted and Book(s)
                          published will be considered equivalent to journal publications.

27    Koita Centre for    Candidates should have a minimum of 3 publications in reputed
      Digital Health      journals or conference proceedings.
      (KCDH)
                          Criteria for Reputed Journals or Conference Proceedings: Inclusion
                          in Scopus/SCI index, MathSCI, SciMajor index, Core Ranking (B or
                          higher), ABDC list (for economics, statistics), medical journals with
                          high impact factor.

                          Candidates must have 1 or more years of post-Ph.D. experience.
                          Candidates should have on average 1 publication per year of post
                          Ph.D. experience in addition to the above minimum specified;

                          Papers published during/based on Ph.D. work can also be counted
                          towards this number. Up to 5 years of work in healthcare
                          organization or hospital or industry that do not offer scope for
                          publication may be exempted from the additional (post-Ph.D.)
                          publication requirements.

                          Granted patents of exceptional quality in the Healthcare or Bio
                          domain can be counted as equivalent to 2 publications. Every other
                          granted patent will be counted as a single publication. Work which
                          is repeated across patents and publications will not be doubly
                          counted.

28    Motilal Oswal       Assistant Professor Grade I & II
      Centre for
      Capital Markets     Educational Qualifications:
                          Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                          preceding degree in the relevant discipline (Financial Markets,
                          Financial Economics, Finance, Banking, Insurance, Financial
                          Analytics, Fintech, Application of AI/ML in Finance, etc.) and a good
                          academic record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty
                          position in Accounting should have CA with Ph.D. in Accounting or
                          Finance.

                          Experience:

                          Assistant Professor Grade I
                          A minimum of three years of post-Ph.D. teaching/ research/
                          professional experience, excluding the experience gained while
                          pursuing Ph.D. The candidate should have demonstrated research
                          capabilities in terms of publications in reputed journals and
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

                         conferences.

                         Assistant Professor Grade II

                         Candidate satisfying all criteria of Assistant Professor Grade I,
                         except the post-Ph.D. experience criterion, may be appointed as
                         Assistant Professor Grade II with appropriate pay based on the
                         number of years of post-doctoral experience.

                         Publications:
                         Candidate should have published a minimum of 3 papers in reputed
                         journals, of which at least 1 in B or higher-level journals listed in
                         ABDC, ABS journal list (level 2 and above).

29    Desai Sethi        (i) 4-year Bachelor’s degree in any branch of Engineering or
      School of          Technology or Design or Economics, or Master's degree in Design,
      Entrepreneurship   Management or Arts/Sciences.
                         (ii) Ph.D degree with research focused on one or more of the areas
                         of specialization advertised.
                         (iii) Work experience in a technology startup company,
                         innovation/incubation centre, or new product development in
                         industry will be appropriately evaluated.
                         (iv) At least two publications/case studies/patents in the advertised
                         specialization areas (Scopus/SCI-indexed journals, HBS/Ivey
                         cases, or granted patents).

30    IDC School of      Qualifications and Experience Criteria for
      Design
                         Assistant Professor Grade I:
                         A postgraduate Degree or Diploma in Design / Arts / Applied Arts,
                         or a postgraduate Degree in Engineering / Architecture /
                         Humanities or equivalent is required for all candidates. For
                         candidates with a Ph.D., the qualifications and experience criteria
                         are as per Institute General Eligibility Criteria. For candidates
                         without a Ph.D., a minimum of 8 years of teaching / research /
                         professional experience is required. However, such candidates will
                         be required to obtain their Ph.D. within 5 years from the date of
                         joining IIT Bombay.

                         Assistant Professor Grade II:
                         Candidates with a Ph.D. satisfying all criteria of Assistant Professor
                         Grade I, except the post-Ph.D. experience criterion for Assistant
                         Professor Grade I, may be appointed as Assistant Professor Grade
                         II with appropriate pay based on the number of years of
                         postdoctoral experience. Candidates without a Ph.D. satisfying all
                         criteria of Assistant Professor Grade I, except having only 5+ years
                         of teaching / research / professional experience, may be appointed
                         as Assistant Professor Grade II with appropriate pay based on the
                         number of years of experience. After satisfying the experience
                         criteria required for Assistant Professor Grade I, they will be moved
                         to Assistant Professor Grade I.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Assistant Professor
No.

31    Shailesh J.       Assistant Professor Grade I & II
      Mehta School of
      Management        Educational Qualifications:
                        Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                        preceding degree in the relevant discipline and a good academic
                        record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty position in
                        Accounting should have a Ph.D. in Accounting or CA with Ph.D. in
                        Accounting or Finance.

                        Experience:

                        Assistant Professor Grade I
                        A minimum of three years of post-Ph.D. teaching / research /
                        professional experience, excluding the experience gained while
                        pursuing Ph.D. The candidate should have demonstrated research
                        capabilities in terms of publications in reputed journals and
                        conferences.

                        Assistant Professor Grade II
                        Candidate satisfying all criteria of Assistant Professor Grade I,
                        except the post-Ph.D. experience criterion, may be appointed as
                        Assistant Professor Grade II with appropriate pay based on the
                        number of years of post Ph.D. experience. After satisfying the
                        experience criteria required for Assistant Professor Grade I, they
                        will be moved to Assistant Professor Grade I.

                        Publications:
                        Candidate should have published a minimum of 3 papers in reputed
                        journals, of which at least 1 in B or higher-level journals listed in
                        ABDC, ERA or ABS journal list (level 2 and above), or Scopus
                        Indexed Journals (CiteScore of 3 and above).
                       Rolling Advertisement No. L-10/25-26
              Associate Professor and Full Professor Eligibility Criteria

Sr.   Academic Unit    Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

1     Aerospace        Associate Professor
      Engineering
                       Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period)-
                       Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of eleven publications
                       in SCI indexed journals and SCI/Scopus indexed conference
                       proceedings.

                       Out of the above, the candidates must have a minimum of six
                       publications in SCI indexed journals and SCI/Scopus indexed
                       conference proceedings, of which at least three should have been
                       published in Scopus/SCI-indexed journals during the assessment
                       period (Assistant Professor or equivalent position).

                       Teaching experience:
                       Candidates should have been involved in academic training
                       activities (e.g. short-term courses, guiding masters’ and doctoral
                       students, supervising interns or any other similar activity). In
                       addition, candidates should demonstrate willingness and ability to
                       participate in the UG teaching of the department in at least two core
                       courses.

                       Masters’ Project guidance:
                       Candidates should have guided at least six Master’s students
                       during the assessment period.

                       Ph.D. guidance:
                       Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
                       Ph.D. student, who has either graduated or is in an advanced
                       stage. Advanced stage is when the student has completed
                       pre-synopsis or has at least one publication produced from the
                       doctoral work.

                       The criteria of Master’s and Ph.D. guidance of students may be
                       relaxed for candidates with excellent research records, if they are
                       from      industry/research labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic
                       institutions.

                       Professor

                       Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                       Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of twenty one
                       publications in SCI indexed journals and SCI/Scopus indexed
                       conference proceedings.

                       Out of the above, the candidates must have a minimum of ten
                       publications in SCI indexed journals and SCI/Scopus indexed
                       conference proceedings, of which at least five should have been
                       published in Scopus/SCI- indexed journals during the assessment
Sr.   Academic Unit    Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                       period (Associate Professor or equivalent position).

                       Teaching experience:
                       Candidates should have been involved in academic training
                       activities (e.g. short-term courses, guiding masters’ and doctoral
                       students, supervising interns or any other similar activity). In
                       addition, candidates should demonstrate willingness and ability to
                       participate in the UG teaching of the department in at least two core
                       courses.

                       Masters Project guidance:
                       Candidates should have guided at least fourteen Master’s students
                       during the assessment period.

                       Ph.D. guidance:
                       Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students
                       who have graduated or should have graduated one student and
                       another should be in advanced stage. Advanced stage is when the
                       student has completed pre-synopsis.

                       The criteria of Master’s and Ph.D. guidance of students may be
                       relaxed for candidates with excellent research records, if they are
                       from      industry/research labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic
                       institutions.

2     Biosciences &    Associate Professor
      Bioengineering
                       Publications:
                       Candidates with research work in biosciences should have a
                       minimum of SEVEN (7) original refereed international publications
                       in Scopus / PubMed / Web of Science (or equivalent) indexed
                       journals. Out of these 7, (i) a minimum of FIVE (5) publications
                       must have been published as first author or as first author with
                       equal contribution and (ii) a minimum of TWO (2) publications must
                       have been published as corresponding / co-corresponding author
                       while the candidate was holding a position at the Assistant
                       Professor (or equivalent) level.

                       Candidates with research work in biomedical engineering should
                       have a minimum of FIVE (5) original refereed international
                       publications in Scopus / PubMed / Web of Science (or equivalent)
                       indexed journals. Out of these 5, (i) a minimum of THREE (3)
                       publications must have been published as first author or as first
                       author with equal contribution and (ii) a minimum of TWO (2)
                       publications must have been published as corresponding /
                       co-corresponding author while the candidate was holding a position
                       at the Assistant Professor (or equivalent) level.

                       A granted patent may be considered as equivalent to an original
                       research publication in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed journals.

                       A   full   paper   in an international   peer-reviewed   conference
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      proceeding of a reputed professional society may be considered as
                      equivalent to an original research publication in Scopus (or
                      equivalent) indexed journals. Development efforts (technology,
                      product, process, protocols, etc.) that have reached a stage of
                      maturity viz., peer-reviewed demonstration of proof-of-concept e.g.,
                      in the form of acceptance by a funding agency or an industry for
                      enhancement of Technology Readiness Level (TRL), deployment,
                      etc., may be considered as equivalent to an original research
                      publication in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed journals.

                      Masters’ Project guidance:
                      Candidates should have guided as supervisor a minimum of three
                      (3) M.Tech/M.Sc students while the candidate was holding a
                      position at the Assistant Professor (or equivalent) level.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      The candidate should be guiding / have guided as supervisor a
                      minimum of two (2) Ph.D. students. Out of these two students, the
                      candidate should be the supervisor of at least one Ph.D. student,
                      who has either graduated or is in an advanced stage. Advanced
                      stage is when the student has completed pre-synopsis or has at
                      least one (1) publication produced from the doctoral work.

                      Co-supervision of M.Sc/M.Tech/Ph.D. would be counted as ½ of
                      supervision.

                      The criteria of supervision of Ph.D./Masters students and teaching
                      at higher educational institutions may be relaxed for candidates
                      who are from industry or Institutes / organizations which do not offer
                      Ph.D. / Masters programs.

                      Professor

                      Publications:
                      Candidates with research work in biosciences should have a
                      minimum of THIRTEEN (13) original refereed international
                      publications in Scopus / PubMed / Web of Science (or equivalent)
                      indexed journals. Out of these 13, (i) a minimum of FIVE (5)
                      publications must have been published as first author or as first
                      author with equal contribution and (ii) a minimum of EIGHT (8)
                      publications must have been published as Corresponding /
                      Co-corresponding Author; a minimum of SIX (6) of these EIGHT (8)
                      publications as corresponding / co-corresponding author must have
                      been published while the candidate was holding a position at the
                      Associate Professor (or equivalent) level.

                      Candidates with research work in biomedical engineering should
                      have a minimum of ELEVEN (11) original refereed international
                      publications in Scopus / PubMed / Web of Science (or equivalent)
                      indexed journals. Out of these 11, (i) a minimum of THREE (3)
                      publications must have been published as first author or as first
                      author with equal contribution and (ii) a minimum of EIGHT (8)
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      publications must have been published as corresponding / co-
                      corresponding Author; a minimum of SIX (6) of these EIGHT (8)
                      publications as corresponding / co-corresponding author must have
                      been published while the candidate was holding a position at the
                      Associate Professor (or equivalent) level.

                      A granted patent may be considered as equivalent to an original
                      research publication in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed journals.

                      A full paper in an international peer-reviewed conference
                      proceeding of a reputed professional society may be considered as
                      equivalent to an original research publication in Scopus (or
                      equivalent) indexed journals.

                      Development efforts (technology, product, process, protocols, etc.)
                      that have reached a stage of maturity viz., peer-reviewed
                      demonstration of proof-of-concept e.g., in the form of acceptance
                      by a funding agency or an industry for enhancement of Technology
                      Readiness Level (TRL), deployment, etc., may be considered as
                      equivalent to an original research publication in Scopus (or
                      equivalent) indexed journals.

                      Masters’ Project guidance:
                      Candidates should have guided as supervisor a minimum of three
                      (3) M.Tech/M.Sc students while the candidate was holding a
                      position at the Associate Professor (or equivalent) level.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidate should have guided as supervisor a minimum of two (2)
                      Ph.D. students and is guiding/ guided as supervisor additionally at
                      least two (2) Ph.D. students.

                      Co-supervision of M.Sc/M.Tech/Ph.D. would be counted as ½ of
                      supervision.

                      The criteria of supervision of Ph.D./Masters students and teaching
                      at higher educational institutions may be relaxed for candidates
                      who are from industry or Institutes / organizations which do not offer
                      Ph.D. / Masters programs.

3     Chemical        Associate Professor
      Engineering
                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of seven
                      peer-reviewed publications in reputed journals or conference
                      proceedings, listed in Scopus/ Science Citation Index. Candidates
                      should also have a minimum of four peer-reviewed publications in
                      reputed journals or conference proceedings, listed in Scopus/
                      Science Citation Index, during their assessment period.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught at least an average of one full
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      core/elective course per year during the assessment period,
                      excluding periods of long leaves.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
                      Ph.D. student who has either graduated or is at an advanced stage.
                      The advanced stage is when the student has completed
                      pre-synopsis. For co-supervision, the candidate should specify
                      his/her contribution to the thesis work of the Ph.D. student.

                      Professor

                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 15 peer-reviewed
                      publications in reputed journals or conference proceedings, listed in
                      Scopus/ Science Citation Index. Candidates should also have a
                      minimum of eight peer-reviewed publications in reputed journals or
                      conference proceedings, listed in Scopus/ Science Citation Index,
                      during their assessment period.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught at least an average of one full
                      core/elective course per year during the assessment period,
                      excluding periods of long leaves.

                      Ph.D. Guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two PhD. students
                      who have graduated or should have graduated one student and
                      another should be at an advanced stage. The advanced stage is
                      when the student has completed the pre-synopsis.

                      Additional criteria for all levels:
                      If a candidate does not meet the above shortlisting criteria, then
                      demonstrated Scholarship through the following avenues for work
                      done during the assessment period may be considered for at most
                      one of the above-listed requirements.

                      The Professors Committee of the department must strongly
                      recommend the exemption
                         1. High-quality books (including textbooks), monographs, and
                            book chapters can be counted towards the scholarship.
                            (Double-counting to be avoided if said books are part of
                            research papers).
                         2. High-quality products.
                         3. Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation scores
                            or feedback from top experts in the area. Note that the
                            Professors Committee of the department can rank some
                            journals as higher and give higher weightage than others
                         4. Significant awards such as the Swaranjayanthi and S.
                            S.Bhatnagar.
Sr.   Academic Unit       Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

4     Chemistry           Associate Professor

                          Publications criteria:
                          (1) Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 10 publications
                          in Scopus/SCI indexed journals.
                          (2) Candidates should also have a minimum of 5 publications at
                          Assistant Professor level in Scopus/SCI indexed journals.

                          Teaching:
                          Candidates should have taught courses equal to two courses per
                          year in the review period.

                          Ph.D. guidance:
                          Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
                          Ph.D. student, who is in an advanced stage. Advanced stage is
                          when the student has completed minimum three years and has at
                          least 2 publications produced from the doctoral work.

                          Projects/Research Grants:
                          Should have been awarded a minimum of one sponsored project
                          from external agencies/Industry as Assistant Professor.

                          Professor

                          Publications criteria:
                          (1) Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 20 publications
                          in Scopus/SCI indexed journals.
                          (2) Candidates should also have a minimum of 15 publications from
                          the previous two positions as Assistant and Associate Professor, in
                          Scopus/SCI indexed journals.

                          Teaching:
                          Candidates should have taught courses equal to two courses per
                          year in the review period.

                          Ph.D. guidance:
                          (1) Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least 2
                          Ph.D. (Viva Voce completed) awarded students.

                          Projects/Research Grants [department option]:
                          Should have been awarded a minimum of three sponsored projects
                          from external agencies/Industry in the previous two positions as
                          Assistant and Associate Professor.

5     Civil Engineering   Associate Professor

                          General: The candidates should have a strong academic and
                          research background with 4-year undergraduate (UG) Degree in
                          Civil Engineering or as specified against the areas of specialization.

                          Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                          Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of EIGHT (8)
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      publications in SCI-indexed reputed journals. Out of the above, the
                      candidates must have a minimum of FOUR (4) publications in
                      SCI-indexed reputed journals during their assessment period, not
                      counting the ones published based on their own Ph.D. thesis. A
                      granted Patent with the candidate as an inventor will be counted as
                      equivalent to one published journal paper. High quality Textbook
                      published by a reputed publisher will be considered as equivalent to
                      three journal papers. Book chapter published by a reputed
                      publisher will be considered as equivalent to one journal paper.
                      Candidates with more years of research experience are expected to
                      have correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Teaching experience: Candidates should have some measurable
                      (with excellent record of teaching feedback) teaching experience
                      and demonstrated excellent teaching skills in their previous
                      assignments.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should have completed the
                      supervision of at least ONE (1) Ph.D. student as sole or main
                      supervisor. Suitable weightage for co-supervision may be
                      considered. The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may be
                      relaxed for candidates with outstanding research records, if they
                      are from industry/ research labs/ non Ph.D. granting academic
                      institutions.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      (a) Research grants should be with the candidate as PI of the
                      project. Research grants received as co-PI will be given
                      proportionate weightage.
                      (b) Research grants may be from a major national/international
                      funding agency (sponsored mode). The candidate should have at
                      least one major sponsored research project component as PI with
                      project cost exceeding ₹25 lakhs. Candidates with experience of a
                      higher number of years are expected to have received higher
                      research grants as PI.
                      (c) Any internal funding from the candidate's parent
                      institute/organization including seed grant will not be considered for
                      this criterion.

                      Professor

                      General: The candidates should have a strong academic and
                      research background with 4-year undergraduate (UG) Degree in
                      Civil Engineering or as specified against the areas of specialization.

                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of FOURTEEN (14)
                      publications in SCI-indexed reputed journals, not counting the ones
                      published based on their own Ph.D. thesis. Out of the above, the
                      candidates must have a minimum of EIGHT (8) publications in
                      SCI-indexed reputed journals during their assessment period, not
                      counting the ones published based on their own Ph.D. thesis. A
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      granted Patent with the candidate as an inventor will be counted as
                      equivalent to one published journal paper. High quality Textbook
                      published by a reputed publisher will be considered as equivalent to
                      three journal papers. Book chapter published by a reputed
                      publisher will be considered as equivalent to one journal paper.
                      Candidates with more years of research experience are expected to
                      have correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Teaching experience: Candidates should have some measurable
                      (with excellent record of teaching feedback) teaching experience
                      and demonstrated excellent teaching skills in their previous
                      assignments.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should have completed the
                      supervision of at least THREE (3) Ph.D. students as sole or main
                      supervisor. Suitable weightage for co-supervision may be
                      considered.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      (a) Research grants should be with the candidate as PI of the
                      project. Research grants received as co-PI will be given
                      proportionate weightage.
                      (b) Research grants may be from a major national/international
                      funding agency (sponsored mode). The candidate should have at
                      least one major sponsored research project component as PI with
                      project cost exceeding ₹50 lakhs. Candidates with experience of a
                      higher number of years are expected to have received higher
                      research grants as PI.
                      (c) Any internal funding from the candidate's parent
                      institute/organization including seed grant will not be considered for
                      this criterion.

                      Exceptional criteria:
                      If a candidate’s expertise does not align with the advertised areas,
                      but has demonstrated Scholarship through the following criteria
                      1. Outstanding academic background throughout.
                      2. High quality text books published by reputed publishers (Double
                      counting to be avoided if said books are part of research papers).
                      3. High quality products/technology developed/transferred by the
                      applicant that are outstanding.
                      4. Exceptional quality papers in highly reputed journals in the area
                      of expertise.

6     Computer        Associate Professor
      Science &
      Engineering     Publications:
                       1.    Candidates should have a minimum of TWELVE (12)
                             post-Ph.D. publications in reputed conferences or journals in
                             computer science and engineering and related areas, with
                             at least 2 of these being in a top-tier forum (*).
                            1.1.     Out of the above, candidates should have a
                                     minimum of 6 publications in reputed conferences
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                                      and journals during their position as Assistant
                                      Professor.
                             1.2.     Two (2) granted patents can count as one
                                      publication, but papers and patents representing the
                                      same work are not double-counted. A maximum of 2
                                      granted patents can be counted as a publication in
                                      this manner.
                       2.    Note: “Reputed” (*) is defined as rank B or higher either in
                             the Core portal (https://www.core.edu.au/) OR in the
                             Department Publication Ranking List and a suitable
                             addendum/corrigendum that may be required. Further,
                             “top-tier” is defined as rank A or higher in the same lists.
                       3.    Candidates with years of research experience higher than
                             the minimum stipulated for this post are expected to have
                             correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                         1. Candidates should have been the supervisor of at least one
                             Ph.D. student, or be the supervisor of a Ph.D. student in an
                             advanced stage. At IIT Bombay, Ph.D. students are
                             considered to be at an advanced stage upon completing
                             their pre-synopsis, and thereby being ready to submit the
                             thesis for external review.
                         2. Being a primary guide counts as having supervised 1 Ph.D.
                             student.
                         3. Being a co-guide for two students counts as having
                             supervised 1 Ph.D. student. Cases where the co-guide
                             requests more credit will be dealt with by the department on
                             a case by case basis.
                         4. The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may be relaxed
                             for candidates with excellent research records, if they are
                             from industry/research labs/non Ph.D. granting academic
                             institutions.

                      Any other eligibility criteria:
                       1.   If a candidate does not meet the above 2 minimum
                            requirements for Publications and Ph.D. guidance, then
                            demonstrated scholarship through the following avenues
                            may be considered for at most one of the 2 requirements.
                            The     department        must   strongly    recommend      the
                            exemption(s).
                            1.1.    High      quality    books    (including    textbooks),
                                    monographs, and book chapters can be counted
                                    towards scholarship. (Double counting to be avoided
                                    if said books are part of research papers).
                            1.2.    High quality products developed by the applicant that
                                    are outstanding.
                            1.3.    Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation
                                    scores or feedback from top experts in the area.
                            1.4.    Significant awards such as the Bhatnagar award,
                                    IEEE or ACM Fellows and so on.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Professor

                      Publications:
                       1.    Candidates should have a minimum of TWENTY (20)
                             post-Ph.D. publications in reputed conferences in computer
                             science and engineering and related areas, with at least 2 of
                             these being in a top-tier forum (*).
                            1.1.      Out of the above, candidates should have a
                                      minimum of 8 publications in reputed conferences
                                      and journals during their assessment period.
                            1.2.      Two (2) granted patents can count as papers, but
                                      papers and patents representing the same work are
                                      not double-counted. A maximum of 2 granted
                                      patents can be counted as a publication in this
                                      manner.
                       2.    Note: “Reputed” is defined as rank B or higher either in the
                             Core portal (https://www.core.edu.au/) OR in the
                             Department Publication Ranking List and a suitable
                             addendum/corrigendum that may be required. Further,
                             “top-tier” is defined as rank A or higher in the same lists.
                       3.    Candidates with years of research experience higher than
                             the minimum stipulated for this post are expected to have
                             correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                         1. Candidates should have been the supervisor of at least two
                             Ph.D. students who have graduated.
                         2. Being a primary guide counts as having supervised 1 Ph.D.
                             student.
                         3. Being a co-guide for two students counts as having
                             supervised 1 Ph.D. student. Cases where the co-guide
                             requests more credit will be dealt with by the department on
                             a case by case basis.
                         4. The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may be relaxed
                             for candidates with excellent research records, if they are
                             from industry/research labs/non Ph.D. granting academic
                             institutions.

                      Any other eligibility criteria:
                       1.   If a candidate does not meet the above 2 minimum
                            requirements for Publications and Ph.D. guidance, then
                            demonstrated scholarship through the following avenues
                            may be considered for at most one of the 2 requirements.
                            The     department        must   strongly    recommend      the
                            exemption(s).
                            1.1.    High      quality    books    (including    textbooks),
                                    monographs, and book chapters can be counted
                                    towards scholarship. (Double counting to be avoided
                                    if said books are part of research papers).
                            1.2.    High quality products developed by the applicant that
                                    are outstanding.
                            1.3.    Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by- citation
Sr.   Academic Unit    Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                                      scores or feedback from top experts in the area.
                              1.4.    Significant awards such as the Bhatnagar award,
                                      IEEE or ACM Fellows and so on.

7     Earth Sciences   Associate Professor

                       Publications criteria:
                       The candidate must have published a minimum of 8 research
                       papers in SCI-indexed journals/peer- reviewed conference
                       proceedings in IEEE/and papers in SEG (IMAGE)/ EAGE/ The
                       Leading Edge, out of which at least 4 research papers should have
                       been published or accepted for publication during the preceding
                       three years. The candidate must be one of the first three authors (or
                       the corresponding author) in the publications. Candidates with more
                       years of research experience are expected to have correspondingly
                       higher research achievements.

                       Masters Project guidance:
                       Candidates from universities/colleges should have supervised/
                       co-supervised at least 6 Master’s theses. This criterion is not
                       applicable for the candidates applying from industry/ research
                       institutes.

                       Ph.D. guidance:
                       Candidates from universities/colleges/research institutes should
                       have supervised/ co-supervised at least one PhD thesis. This
                       criterion is not applicable for the candidates from industry.

                       Projects/Research Grants:
                       It is desirable that candidates from universities/ colleges/ research
                       institutes should have been awarded at least one sponsored
                       research grant. This criterion is not applicable for those applying
                       from industry.

                       Additional/desirable criteria:
                       ● Having established new labs or contributed to the development of
                       existing labs may be considered as an additional advantage.
                       ● Having Awards/book chapters/ conferences conducted etc. may
                       be considered as an additional advantage.

                       Professor

                       Publications criteria:
                       The candidate must have published minimum of 14 research
                       papers in SCI-indexed journals/peer- reviewed conference
                       proceedings in IEEE/and papers in SEG(IMAGE)/EAGE/ The
                       Leading Edge, out of which at least 6 papers should have been
                       published or accepted for publication during the preceding four
                       years. The candidate must be one of the first three authors (or the
                       corresponding author) in the publications. Candidates with more
                       years of research experience are expected to have correspondingly
                       higher research achievements.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.


                      Masters Project guidance:
                      Candidates       from       universities/colleges    should      have
                      supervised/co-supervised at least 8 Master’s theses. This criterion
                      is not applicable for the candidates applying from industry/ research
                      institutes.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates from universities/colleges/research institutes should
                      have supervised / cosupervised at least two PhD theses.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      It is desirable that candidates from universities/colleges/research
                      institutes should have been awarded at least two research grants.
                      This criterion is not applicable for those applying from industry.

                      Additional/desirable criteria:
                      ● Having established new labs or contributed to the development of
                      existing labs may be considered as an additional advantage
                      ● Having awards/book chapters/ conferences conducted etc. may
                      be considered as an additional advantage.

8     Economics       Consistently good academic performance: PhD, with First Class or
                      equivalent (in terms of Grades etc.), at the preceding degree and a
                      good academic record throughout; candidates must have been
                      awarded the Ph.D. degree at the time of applying.

                      Associate Professor

                      We expect a minimum contribution in Teaching, Research, and
                      Ph.D. Student guidance from all the applicants.

                      (A) Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of six
                      publications, of which at least four should be in reputed peer
                      reviewed journals [Scopus/ ABDC/ ABS or equivalent
                      ranked/indexed journals]. The other papers could be in peer
                      reviewed Edited Books published by reputed publishers and/or
                      Working Papers from reputed institutions/forums. Out of the above,
                      the candidates must have a minimum of four publications, of which
                      at least two should be in reputed peer reviewed journals
                      [Scopus/ABDC/ABS or equivalent ranked/indexed journals] during
                      the assessment period.

                      (B) Teaching: Candidates should have some measurable teaching
                      experience and demonstrated excellent teaching skills in the
                      previous assignments. Those from the industry or non-academic
                      institution background must have demonstrated contribution to their
                      organisation and leadership abilities during their work experience.

                      (C) Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should be the supervisor/
                      co-supervisor of at least one Ph.D. student, who has either
                      graduated or is in an advanced stage. Advanced stage is when the
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      student has completed pre-synopsis or has at least one publication
                      produced from the doctoral work.

                      The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may be relaxed for
                      candidates with excellent research records, if they are from
                      industry/research labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic institutions.

                      Professor

                      (A) Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of twelve
                      publications, of which at least seven should be in reputed peer
                      reviewed     journals    [Scopus/ABDC/ABS        or     equivalent
                      ranked/indexed journals]. The other papers could be in peer
                      reviewed Edited Books published by reputed publishers and/or
                      Working Papers from reputed institutions/forums. Out of the above,
                      the candidates must have a minimum of six publications, of which
                      at least four should be in reputed peer reviewed journals
                      [Scopus/ABDC/ABS or equivalent ranked/indexed journals] during
                      the assessment period.

                      (B) Teaching: Candidates should have some measurable teaching
                      experience and demonstrated excellent teaching skills in the
                      previous assignments.

                      (C) Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should be the supervisor of at
                      least two Ph.D. students who have graduated or should have
                      graduated one student and another should be in advanced stage.
                      Advanced stage is when the student has completed pre-synopsis or
                      has at least one publication produced from the doctoral work.

9     Electrical      Associate Professor (direct applicants from academia)
      Engineering
                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                         ● Candidates should have, overall, a minimum of 15
                             publications, including a minimum of 4 publications in
                             (SCI/SCOPUS indexed) journals.
                         ● Candidates should also have a minimum of 3 publications in
                             (SCI/SCOPUS indexed) journals over his/her tenure as
                             Assistant Professor.
                         ● A granted patent, on which the applicant is named as an
                             inventor, will be considered as being equivalent to 1 journal
                             publication (in the year of the patent being granted).
                         ● An instance of technology developed by the applicant that is
                             licensed to the industry will be considered as being
                             equivalent to 2 journal publications (in the year the licensing
                             agreement comes into force).
                         ● A conference publication that is ranked A* or A by the
                             Australian core rankings
                             (http://portal.core.edu.au/conf-ranks/) will be considered as
                             being equivalent to 1 journal publication in the same year.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                        Associate Professor (direct applicants from industry)

                        Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                           ● Candidates should have, overall, a minimum of 8
                               publications, including a minimum of 3 publications in
                               (SCI/SCOPUS indexed) journals.
                           ● A granted patent, on which the applicant is named as an
                               inventor, will be considered as being equivalent to 1 journal
                               publication (in the year of the patent being granted).
                           ● A conference publication that is ranked A* or A by the
                               Australian core rankings
                               (http://portal.core.edu.au/conf-ranks/) will be considered as
                               being equivalent to 1 journal publication in the same year.

                        Professor

                        Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                           ● Candidates should have, overall, a minimum of 27
                               publications with a minimum of 10 papers in (SCI/Scopus
                               indexed) journals. Candidates should also have a minimum
                               of 6 (SCI/Scopus indexed) publications in journals over
                               his/her tenure as Associate Professor.
                           ● A granted patent, on which the applicant is named as an
                               inventor, will be considered as being equivalent to 1 journal
                               publication (in the year of the patent being granted).
                           ● An instance of technology developed by the applicant that is
                               licensed to the industry will be considered as being
                               equivalent to 2 journal publications (in the year the licensing
                               agreement comes into force).
                           ● A conference publication that is ranked A* or A by the
                               Australian core rankings
                               (http://portal.core.edu.au/conf-ranks/) will be considered as
                               being equivalent to 1 journal publication in the same year.

                        Ph.D. guidance (For Professor):
                        The applicant should have graduated at least 2 Ph.D. scholars. A
                        Ph.D. student who is co-advised by the applicant will count as ¹⁄�
                        student. However, the applicant should have been the primary
                        Ph.D. supervisor for at least one of the aforementioned students.

                        Projects/Research Grants:
                        The applicant should have executed or have as ongoing at least 1
                        sponsored research/consultancy projects as the PI of the project.

10    Energy Science    Associate Professor:
      and Engineering
                        1. Solar-thermal energy systems

                        Essential Qualifications:
                        (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy
                        Engineering;
                        (b) Ph.D. in area related to solar-thermal energy systems.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.


                      Desirable: Combination of experimental and modeling experience
                      is preferred, with emphasis on concentrated solar thermal
                      applications.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of nine
                      (9) publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in
                      energy science and engineering related areas. They should also
                      have a minimum of four (4) publications in Scopus/Web of Science
                      indexed journals in energy science and engineering related areas
                      as Assistant Professor.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should have supervised at least one
                      Ph.D. student.

                      2. Energy Policy

                      Essential Qualifications:
                      (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Science or Engineering or
                      Economics;
                      (b) Ph.D. in area related to Energy Policy with emphasis on energy
                      supply, demand and consumption; energy scenarios modeling; and
                      technology assessment and forecasting at the national level.

                      Desirable: Experience in energy scenarios modeling and
                      technology assessment and forecasting; Publications in journals
                      related to energy and energy policy.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of nine
                      (9) publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in
                      energy science and engineering related areas. They should also
                      have a minimum of four (4) publications in Scopus/Web of Science
                      indexed journals in energy science and engineering related areas
                      as Assistant Professor.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should have supervised at least one
                      Ph.D. student.

                      3. Recycling of materials

                      Essential Qualifications:
                      (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy or
                      Chemical or Materials and Metallurgical Engineering;
                      (b) Ph.D. in area related to recycling of materials from end-of-life
                      energy systems-batteries, solar PV panels, wind turbine blades,
                      etc. with focus on experiments.

                      Desirable: Work related to systems level.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of nine
                      (9) publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in
                      energy science and engineering related areas. They should also
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      have a minimum of four (4) publications in Scopus/Web of Science
                      indexed journals in energy science and engineering related areas
                      as Assistant Professor.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should have supervised at least one
                      Ph.D. student.

                      Professor

                      1. Solar-thermal energy systems

                      Essential Qualifications:
                      (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy
                      Engineering;
                      (b) Ph.D. in area related to solar-thermal energy systems.

                      Desirable: Combination of experimental and modeling experience
                      is preferred, with emphasis on concentrated solar thermal
                      applications.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 20
                      publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
                      science and engineering related areas. They should also have a
                      minimum of 11 publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed
                      journals in energy science and engineering related areas as
                      Associate Professor.

                      Teaching: Candidates should have taught an average of two
                      courses per year during their academic career.

                      Ph.D.   guidance:      Candidates     should     have supervised/
                      co-supervised at least three (3) Ph.D. students (with at least one as
                      main supervisor).

                      Projects/Research Grants: At least one (1) Project/Research
                      grant at the level of Associate Professor.

                      2. Energy Policy

                      Essential Qualifications:
                      (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Science or Engineering or
                      Economics;
                      (b) Ph.D. in area related to Energy Policy with emphasis on energy
                      supply, demand and consumption; energy scenarios modeling; and
                      technology assessment and forecasting at the national level.

                      Desirable: Experience in energy scenarios modeling and
                      technology assessment and forecasting; Publications in journals
                      related to energy and energy policy.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 20
                      publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      science and engineering related areas. They should also have a
                      minimum of 11 publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed
                      journals in energy science and engineering related areas as
                      Associate Professor.

                      Teaching: Candidates should have taught an average of two
                      courses per year during their academic career.

                      Ph.D.   guidance:      Candidates     should     have supervised/
                      co-supervised at least three (3) Ph.D. students (with at least one as
                      main supervisor).

                      Projects/Research Grants: At least one (1) Project/Research
                      grant at the level of Associate Professor.

                      3. Recycling of materials

                      Essential Qualifications:
                      (a) Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree in Mechanical or Energy or
                      Chemical or Materials and Metallurgical Engineering;
                      (b) Ph.D. in area related to recycling of materials from end-of-life
                      energy systems-batteries, solar PV panels, wind turbine blades,
                      etc. with focus on experiments.

                      Desirable: Work related to systems level.

                      Publications: Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 20
                      publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed journals in energy
                      science and engineering related areas. They should also have a
                      minimum of 11 publications in Scopus/Web of Science indexed
                      journals in energy science and engineering related areas as
                      Associate Professor.

                      Teaching: Candidates should have taught an average of two
                      courses per year during their academic career.

                      Ph.D.   guidance:      Candidates     should     have supervised/
                      co-supervised at least three (3) Ph.D. students (with at least one as
                      main supervisor).

                      Projects/Research Grants: At least one (1) Project/Research
                      grant at the level of Associate Professor.

                      Exceptional candidates in all areas relevant to the academic unit
                      will also be considered.

11    Environmental   Associate Professor
      Science and
      Engineering     The candidate must possess Ph.D. and M.Tech./ M.E./ M.S. with
                      research focus in Environmental Science/ Engineering from reputed
                      Institutes. Also, the candidate should have B.Tech./B.E./B.S. in
                      Environmental/     Civil/ Chemical/    Mechanical    Engineering/
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Biotechnology and allied disciplines or M.Sc. in Environmental
                      Science and allied disciplines. The candidate who has done a Ph.D.
                      directly after completing B.Tech./B.E./B.S. must have undergone
                      substantial course work in Environmental Science/ Engineering.

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 8 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI index reputed journals. Out of the above, candidates
                      must have a minimum of 5 publications in Scopus/SCI index
                      reputed journals during their assessment period. Each patent
                      granted (not applied/filed) will be considered as equivalent to a
                      quality publication in a reputed international journal. Candidates
                      with more years of research experience are expected to have
                      correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least one Ph.D. student.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      Minimum 1 research grant in the assessment period.

                      Any other eligibility criteria:
                      Minimum 1 Continuing Education Program or 1 consultancy or 1
                      other relevant professional activity in the assessment period.

                      Professor

                      The candidate must possess Ph.D. and M.Tech./ M.E./ M.S. with
                      research focus in Environmental Science/ Engineering from reputed
                      Institutes. Also, the candidate should have B.Tech./B.E./B.S. in
                      Environmental/     Civil/   Chemical/    Mechanical   Engineering/
                      Biotechnology and allied disciplines or M.Sc. in Environmental
                      Science and allied disciplines. The candidate who has done a Ph.D.
                      directly after completing B.Tech./B.E./B.S. must have undergone
                      substantial course work in Environmental Science/ Engineering.

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 16 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI index reputed journals. Out of the above, candidates
                      must have a minimum of 8 publications in Scopus/SCI index
                      reputed journals during their assessment period. Each patent
                      granted (not applied/filed) will be considered as equivalent to a
                      quality publication in a reputed international journal. Candidates
                      with more years of research experience are expected to have
                      correspondingly higher research achievements.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students
                      who have graduated.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      Minimum 1 research grant in the assessment period.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.


                        Any other eligibility criteria:
                        Minimum 1 Continuing Education Program or 1 consultancy or 1
                        other relevant professional activity in the assessment period.

12    Industrial        Associate Professor
      Engineering and
      Operations        Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
      Research (IEOR)   ● Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 8 publications in
                        reputed journals or refereed conference proceedings.
                        ● Out of the above, the candidates should also have a minimum of
                        3 publications in reputed journals or refereed conference
                        proceedings during Assistant Professor Grade I or equivalent.
                        ● Journals and conference proceedings listed in Scopus or SCI or
                        CORE or ABDC or AMS MathSciNet will be considered. In addition,
                        other reputed journals and conference proceedings that will be
                        considered as approved and listed on a link at www.ieor.iitb.ac.in
                        ● Reviewed Book chapters, up to 2, can be counted as equivalent
                        to 1 publication each.
                        ● Granted patents, up to 2, can be counted as equivalent to 1
                        publication each.

                        Teaching:
                        The candidate must have demonstrated ability to teach courses
                        relevant to Industrial Engineering/Operations research.

                        Ph.D. Guidance:
                        Candidates should be supervisor/co-supervisor of at least one
                        Ph.D. student. The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may be
                        relaxed for candidates with excellent research records, if they are
                        from      industry/research labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic
                        institutions.

                        Projects/Research Grants:
                        At least 1 external sponsored project (externally funded) during the
                        assessment period.

                        Professor

                        Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                        ● Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 12 publications in
                        reputed journals or conference proceedings.
                        ● Out of the above, the candidates should also have a minimum of
                        4 publications in reputed journals or conference proceedings during
                        their assessment period.
                        ● Journals and conference proceedings listed in Scopus or SCI or
                        CORE or ABDC or AMS MathSciNet will be considered. In addition,
                        other reputed journals and conference proceedings that will be
                        considered as approved and listed on a link at www.ieor.iitb.ac.in.
                        ● Reviewed Book chapters, up to 2, can be counted as equivalent
                        to 1 publication each.
                        ● Granted patents, up to 2, can be counted as equivalent to 1
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      publication each.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates must have demonstrated ability to teach courses
                      relevant to Industrial Engineering/Operations research.

                      Ph.D. Guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students
                      who have graduated.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      At least 1 external sponsored project (externally funded) during the
                      assessment period.

13    Mathematics     Associate Professor

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 8 publications in
                      journals listed in AMS MathSciNet.

                      Out of the above, the candidates should have a minimum of 3
                      publications at the Assistant Professor level in journals listed in
                      AMS MathSciNet.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should have graduated at least one Ph.D. Student as
                      supervisor/co-supervisor.

                      Professor

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 12 publications in
                      journals listed in AMS MathSciNet.

                      Out of the above, the candidates should have a minimum of 4
                      publications at the Associate Professor level in journals listed in
                      AMS MathSciNet.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should have graduated at least two Ph.D. students as
                      the supervisor.

14    Mechanical      Associate Professor
      Engineering
                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of Eight (08)
                      publications in reputed journals (Q1 or Q2, as per SJR Ranking).

                      Out of these, candidates should also have a minimum of Five (05)
                      publications in reputed journals (Q1 or Q2, as per SJR Ranking)
                      during the period as Assistant Professor (or equivalent).
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Candidates with more years of research experience are expected to
                      have at least one additional publication in reputed journals (Q1 or
                      Q2, as per SJR Ranking) per year of additional experience.

                      Up to one granted patent (or technology licensed to industry) in
                      areas relevant to the areas of specialization advertised, on which
                      the applicant is named as an inventor, will be treated equivalent to
                      one journal paper.

                      Up to one textbook published by reputed publisher will be treated
                      equivalent to three journal papers.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least one (01) Ph.D.
                      student, who has either graduated or is in an advanced stage. Here
                      the advanced stage refers to when the student has either
                      completed pre-synopsis seminar or has at least one (1) publication
                      in a reputed journal as the lead author, produced from the doctoral
                      work.

                      In case of multiple supervisors/ co-supervision, the candidate may
                      specify appropriate weightage.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught at least two different theory courses
                      as Asst. Prof. (or equivalent).

                      Significant efforts towards Instructional Laboratory development will
                      be given due Consideration.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      The candidate should have at least one (01) externally funded
                      research project awarded to his or her credit.

                      The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students or research grants or
                      Teaching, may be relaxed for candidates with excellent research
                      records, if they are from industry/research labs/non Ph.D. granting
                      academic institutions.

                      Professor

                      Publication criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of Fifteen (15)
                      publications in reputed journals (Q1 or Q2, as per SJR Ranking).

                      Out of these, candidates should also have a minimum of Six (06)
                      publications in reputed journals (Q1 or Q2, as per SJR Ranking) as
                      Associate Professor (or equivalent).

                      Candidates with more years of research experience are expected to
                      have at least one additional publication in reputed journals (Q1 or
                      Q2, as per SJR Ranking) per year of additional experience.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Up to one granted patent (or technology licensed to industry) in
                      areas relevant to the areas of specialization advertised, on which
                      the applicant is named as an inventor, will be treated equivalent to
                      one journal paper.

                      Up to one textbook published by reputed publisher will be treated
                      equivalent to three journal papers.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two (02) Ph.D.
                      students who have graduated. In case of multiple supervisors/
                      co-supervision, the candidate may specify appropriate weightage.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught at least five (5) different theory
                      courses.

                      Significant efforts towards Instructional Laboratory development will
                      be given due consideration.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      The candidate should have at least two (02) externally funded
                      research project awarded in the assessment period as Associate
                      Professor (or equivalent) and three (03) in cumulative period from
                      the date of joining as Assistant Professor level or equivalent
                      position.

                      The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students or research grants or
                      teaching requirements, may be relaxed for candidates with
                      excellent research records, if they are from industry/research
                      labs/non Ph.D. granting academic institutions.

15    Metallurgical   Associate Professor
      Engineering &
      Materials       Candidates who have degrees other than B.E./B.Tech should have
      Science         done mathematics courses in their undergraduate or postgraduate
                      or graduate studies.

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates who are applying with 6 years post-Ph.D. experience,
                      should have, in total, a minimum of 7 publications in reputed
                      journals. For those candidates who are applying with more than 6
                      years of post-Ph.D. experience, the total number of publications (in
                      reputed journals) should at least be one more than the number of
                      years of post-Ph.D. experience. Reputed publications refer to
                      (Scopus/SCI/Ei Compendex/equivalent) indexed peer reviewed
                      Journal publications.

                      Each granted patent can be considered equivalent to one
                      publication.

                      Each book can be considered equivalent to three publications.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Each book chapter can be considered equivalent to one publication.

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught at least 2 different courses at the
                      undergraduate level and demonstrated excellent teaching skills in
                      their previous assignments.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should have supervised at least one Ph.D. student.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      At least should have led at least one research and development
                      project funded by agency outside their parent organization.

                      Professor

                      Candidates who have degrees other than B.E./B.Tech should have
                      done mathematics courses in their undergraduate or postgraduate
                      or graduate studies.

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates who are applying with 10 years post-Ph.D. experience,
                      should have, in total, a minimum of 15 publications in reputed
                      journals. For those candidates who are applying with more than 10
                      years of post-Ph.D. experience, the total number of publications (in
                      reputed journals) should at least be five more than the number of
                      years of post-Ph.D. experience.

                      Out of the above, candidates should have a minimum of 6
                      publications in reputed journals during their tenure as Associate
                      Professor.

                      Reputed publications refer to (Scopus/SCI/Ei Compendex/
                      equivalent) indexed peer reviewed Journal publications.

                      Each granted IPR patent can be considered equivalent to one
                      publication.

                      Each book can be considered equivalent to three publications.

                      Each book chapter can be considered equivalent to one publication.

                      Teaching:
                      During the tenure as Associate Professor, the candidate must have
                      taught at least 3 UG courses and a total of at least 8 courses. One
                      Lab course is considered equivalent to one theory course. For
                      shared courses, the teaching load will be appropriately
                      proportioned.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should have supervised at least two Ph.D. students.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      At least should have led at least two research and development
                      projects funded by agency outside their parent organization.

16    Physics         Associate Professor
                      Publications Criteria:
                      A candidate should have a minimum of 10 publications in Scopus
                      indexed, peer-reviewed journals in Physics or Astronomy. Of these
                      a minimum of 7 should be during the post-Ph.D. period.
                      Teaching:
                      Candidates from academic background must have taught at least
                      four different courses. A candidate from industrial or pure research
                      background must have demonstrated the ability to teach.
                      Ph.D. Guidance:
                      A candidate from an academic background must have graduated at
                      least one Ph.D. student as the sole guide. A candidate from
                      industrial or pure research background must have demonstrated
                      ability to mentor Ph.D. level research.
                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      A candidate from an academic background must have got at least
                      one sponsored project from an external funding agency. A
                      candidate from industrial or pure research background must have
                      demonstrated the ability to generate funding resources.
                      Professor
                      Publications Criteria:
                      A candidate should have a minimum of 15 publications in Scopus
                      indexed, peer-reviewed journals in Physics or Astronomy. Of these
                      a minimum of 4 should be during the tenure of associate
                      professorship.
                      Teaching Scores:
                      The candidate should have an average course feedback score of at
                      least 65 based on the 5 courses with the highest scores among the
                      courses that he/she taught during the tenure of associate
                      professorship. The candidate should have taught the first-year
                      common core theory courses at least once or should have opted to
                      teach them.
                      Ph.D. Guidance:
                      The candidate should have graduated at least one Ph.D. student
                      and must have at least one more student who has given
                      pre-synopsis seminar.
                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      The candidate should have got at least one sponsored project from
                      an external funding agency during the tenure as an associate
                      professor.
Sr.   Academic Unit        Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

17    Ashank Desai         Associate Professor
      Centre for Policy
      Studies              Publications criteria:
                           A candidate should have a minimum of 8 publications*, five of
                           which should be journal publications.
                           A candidate should have a minimum of 5 policy relevant
                           publications* in the assessment period, 3 of which should be journal
                           publications.
                           *A publication refers to:
                               ● paper in a refereed journal (indexed in Scopus/SCI, JSTOR,
                                  Sage, MUSE, ABDC or equivalent reputed journals);
                               ● text book or a monograph from a reputed publisher (equal to
                                  2 publications);
                               ● chapter in a peer-reviewed edited volume from a reputed
                                  publisher (equal to 1 publication).
                           Teaching:
                           A candidate should have taught at least an average of two courses
                           per year during the assessment period, excluding periods of long
                           leaves.
                           Ph.D. Guidance:
                           Candidate must be actively engaged in guiding Ph.D students
                           [either as a guide or as a co-guide], with at least one Ph.D. student
                           awarded degree as guide or Ph.D. student has submitted the thesis
                           at the time of interview.**
                           If the candidate is a co-guide, it will be counted as guiding ¹⁄� a
                           student. The count will be treated as 1 for the guide even if there is
                           a co-guide.
                           Master’s students Guidance:
                           Candidate must be actively engaged in guiding Master’s students
                           [as a guide], with at least 2 full Master’s dissertations completed.
                          **If thesis is not submitted on the day of interview, the interview will
                              be cancelled.

                           Professor

                           Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                           A candidate should have a minimum of 12 publications*, 7 of which
                           should be journal publications. Candidate should have a minimum
                           of 4 policy relevant publications* in the assessment period, 2 of
                           which should be journal publications.

                           *A publication refers to:
                               ● a paper in a refereed journal (indexed in Scopus/SCI,
                                  JSTOR, Sage, MUSE, ABDC or equivalent reputed
                                  journals);
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                           ●   a text book or a monograph from a reputed publisher (equal
                               to 2 publications);
                           ●   a chapter in a peer-reviewed edited volume from a reputed
                               publisher (equal to 1 publication).

                        Teaching:
                        A candidate should have taught at least an average of 12 credits
                        per year during the assessment period, excluding periods of long
                        leaves.

                        A candidate should have taught at least 4 different courses during
                        his/ her career.

                        Ph.D. Guidance:
                        Candidate must be actively engaged in guiding Ph.D. students
                        [either as a guide or as a co-guide], with at least two Ph.D. students
                        or one student awarded and another would have submitted the
                        thesis at the time of interview.

                        If the candidate is a co-guide, it will be counted as guiding ¹⁄� a
                        student. The count will be treated as 1 for the guide even if there is
                        a co-guide.

                        Master’s students Guidance:
                        Candidate must be actively engaged in guiding Master’s students
                        [as a guide], with at least 4 full Master’s dissertations completed.

                        Projects and Research Grants:
                        The candidate should have been a PI/ co-PI for at least one
                        externally funded sponsored project during the assessment period.

18    Centre for        Associate Professor
      Climate Studies
                        Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                        Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 9 publications in
                        Scopus/SCI indexed journals.

                        Candidates should also have a minimum of 6 publications in
                        Scopus/SCI indexed journals during their assessment period.

                        A maximum of one patent granted could be counted as equivalent
                        to one peer-reviewed journal publication

                        Teaching scores:
                        Candidates should have taught at least 2 courses per year during
                        the assessment period.

                        Candidates applying from outside academia, including national
                        laboratories, must have similar demonstrated teaching experience.

                        Ph.D. guidance:
                        Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Ph.D. student, who has either graduated or is in an advanced
                      stage. Advanced stage is when the student has completed
                      pre-synopsis or has at least 2 Scopus/SCI indexed Journal
                      publications produced from the doctoral work. A weightage of 67%
                      as main supervisor and 33% as co-supervisor will be used for Ph.D.
                      student guidance. (The criteria of Ph.D. guidance of students may
                      be relaxed for candidates with excellent research records, if they
                      are from industry/research labs/non Ph.D. granting academic
                      institutions.)
                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      The candidate should have conducted at least one sponsored
                      research project as PI, funded by an external agency.
                      *If a candidate does not meet the above shortlisting criteria, then
                      demonstrated Scholarship through the following avenues for work
                      done during the assessment period may be considered for at most
                      one of the above listed requirements. The IDP-PC must strongly
                      recommend the exemption.
                          ● For Science stream, high quality books (including
                              textbooks), high impact monographs, edited books and book
                              chapters (high impact reports such as IPCC Assessment
                              Reports, FAO reports, WMO reports, etc.) can be counted
                              towards scholarship.
                          ● High quality products developed by the applicant that are
                              deemed outstanding by the IDP-PC. This includes
                              successful translation and commercialization of the
                              candidate’s research.
                          ● Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation scores
                              or feedback from top experts in the area.
                          ● Significant awards related to Ph.D. thesis, published papers
                              or of national and international stature.
                          ● Significant service contributions to administration of
                              Department and Institute.
                      Professor
                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 17 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI indexed journals.

                      Candidates should also have a minimum of 8 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI indexed journals during their assessment period.

                      A maximum of one patent granted could be counted as equivalent
                      to one peer-reviewed journal publication.

                      Teaching scores:
                      Candidates should have taught at least 2 courses per year during
                      the assessment period.

                      Candidates applying from outside academia, including national
                      laboratories, must have similar demonstrated teaching experience.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                        Ph.D. guidance:
                        Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students
                        who have graduated or should have graduated one student and
                        another should be in advanced stage. Advanced stage is when the
                        student has completed pre-synopsis or has at least 2 Scopus/SCI
                        indexed journal publications produced from the doctoral work.

                        Projects/Research Grants:
                        The candidate should have conducted at least two sponsored
                        research projects as PI, funded by an external agency.
                        *If a candidate does not meet the above shortlisting criteria, then
                        demonstrated Scholarship through the following avenues for work
                        done during the assessment period may be considered for at most
                        one of the above listed requirements. The IDP-PC must strongly
                        recommend the exemption.
                            ● For Science stream, high quality books (including
                                textbooks), high impact monographs, edited books and book
                                chapters (high impact reports such as IPCC Assessment
                                Reports, FAO reports, WMO reports, etc.) can be counted
                                towards scholarship.
                            ● High quality products developed by the applicant that are
                                deemed outstanding by the IDP-PC. This includes
                                successful translation and commercialization of the
                                candidate’s research.
                            ● Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation scores
                                or feedback from top experts in the area.
                            ● Significant awards related to Ph.D. thesis, published papers
                                or of national and international stature.

19    Centre for        Eligibility criteria for Associate Professor position (direct
      Defence           applicants from academia)
      Technology
      Innovations and   The candidates should have a strong academic and research
      Strategies        background in the advertised areas with a Ph.D. degree in STEM.
      (CDTIS)
                        At least 3 years of research /teaching experience at Assistant
                        Professor level (Grade 1).

                        Candidates should have, overall, published at least 15 good papers
                        (as first author) in the areas advertised out of which at least 8
                        should be in reputed peer reviewed journals [Scopus/ABDC/ABS or
                        equivalent ranked/indexed journals].

                        Candidates should also have a minimum of 3 publications in
                        (SCI/SCOPUS indexed) journals over his/her tenure as Assistant
                        Professor.

                        Research grants received / Teaching or Industry experience /
                        Significant National or International awards will be considered as an
                        additional advantage.

                        A granted Patent with the candidate as main contributor will be
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      counted as equivalent to one published journal paper.

                      Textbook / Book chapter published by reputed publisher will be
                      considered as an additional advantage.

                      Candidates should have taught at least an average of one full
                      core/elective course per year (with excellent record of teaching
                      feedback) in their previous assignments.

                      Candidates should have completed the supervision of at least ONE
                      (1) Ph.D. student as sole or main supervisor. Suitable weightage for
                      co-supervision may be considered.

                      Eligibility criteria for Associate Professor position (direct
                      applicants from industry)

                      The candidates should have a strong academic and research
                      background in the advertised areas with a Ph.D. degree in STEM.

                      At least 10 years of Post Ph.D research /teaching /industry
                      experience [including Postdoctoral research experience].

                      Published 8 good papers (as first author) in the areas advertised
                      out of which at least 3 should be in reputed peer reviewed journals
                      [Scopus /ABDC/ABS or equivalent ranked/indexed journals] or
                      reputed peer-reviewed think tank and industry publications.

                      Research grants received / Teaching or Industry experience /
                      Significant National or International awards will be considered as an
                      additional advantage.

                      A granted Patent with the candidate as main contributor will be
                      counted as equivalent to one published journal paper.

                      Textbook / Book chapter published by reputed publisher will be
                      considered as an additional advantage.

20    Centre for      Associate Professor
      Educational
      Technology      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 6 publications on
                      EdTech related topics in reputed journals. Since the area is
                      interdisciplinary and has conferences with rigorous peer review, two
                      full papers in the conferences specifically identified by the
                      department may be considered in lieu of one journal paper;
                      conference papers may be considered in lieu of at most 2 journal
                      papers. Candidates should also have a minimum of 4 journal
                      papers in reputed journals during the past 6 years. 4 full papers in
                      conferences specifically identified by the department may be
                      considered in lieu of at most 2 journal papers. Journals indexed in
                      Scopus/SCI index, or CORE Ranking of B or higher, are considered
                      reputed.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Teaching: Candidates should have taught at least an average of
                      two courses in the EdTech domain per year during the preceding 3
                      years.

                      Masters’ Project guidance: Candidates should have guided at
                      least 3 Master’s students in the EdTech domain.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should be the supervisor of at least
                      one Ph.D. student in the EdTech domain who has graduated.

                      Projects/Research Grants: Awarded at least one sponsored
                      research grants or consultancy projects during the review period.

                      Other criteria:
                      ● Carrying out outreach activities such as NPTEL or Continuing
                      Education Program courses during the review period will be
                      considered as an additional advantage.
                      ● Carrying out research initiatives towards capacity building at the
                      local/regional level will be considered as an additional advantage.
                      ● Establishing new labs or contribution to the development of
                      existing Labs or courses, will be considered as an additional
                      advantage.
                      ● Awards/book chapters/conferences organized etc. may be
                      considered an additional advantage.
                      ● Serving the department/institute as a committee member or in
                      any other capacity is desirable.

                      Exceptions can be made if warranted. Exceptional criteria include:
                      Prestigious fellowship/ awards like Swarnajayanthi, Bhatnagar,
                      highly successful translation and commercialization of the
                      candidate’s research.

                      Professor

                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period): -
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 12 publications on
                      EdTech related topics in reputed journals. Since the area is
                      interdisciplinary and has conferences with rigorous peer review, two
                      full papers in the conferences specifically identified by the
                      department may be considered in lieu of one journal paper;
                      conference papers may be considered in lieu of at most 4 journal
                      papers. Candidates should also have a minimum of 6 journal
                      papers in reputed journals during the past 7 years. 4 full papers in
                      conferences specifically identified by the department may be
                      considered in lieu of at most 2 journal papers. Journals indexed in
                      Scopus/SCI index, or CORE Ranking of B or higher, are considered
                      reputed.

                      Teaching: Candidates should have taught at least an average of
                      two courses per year in EdTech domain for 4 years within the
                      preceding 7 years.
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                         Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should be the supervisor of at least
                         two Ph.D. students in the EdTech domain who have graduated.

                         Projects/Research Grants: Awarded at least two sponsored
                         research grants or consultancy projects during the review period.

                         Other criteria:
                         ● Carrying out outreach activities, such as NPTEL or Continuing
                         Education program courses will be considered as an additional
                         advantage.
                         ● Carrying out research initiatives towards capacity building at the
                         local/regional level will be considered as an additional advantage.
                         ● Establishing new labs or contribution to the development of
                         existing Labs or courses, will be considered as an additional
                         advantage.
                         ● Awards/book chapters/conferences organized etc. may be
                         considered an additional advantage.

                         Exceptions can be made if warranted. Exceptional criteria include:
                         Prestigious fellowship/ awards like Swarnajayanthi, Bhatnagar,
                         highly successful translation and commercialization of the
                         candidate’s research.

21    Centre for         Associate Professor
      Machine
      Intelligence and   Publications:
      Data Science       A minimum of 12 post-PhD publications in reputed journals or
      (C-MinDS)          conferences (as defined in the eligibility for Assistant Professors);
                         up to 2 granted patents can count as papers, but papers and
                         patents representing the same work will not be double-counted.
                         Candidates applying from academic institutions should have a
                         minimum of 6 publications in reputed journals or conferences during
                         their position as Assistant Professor. Up to 2 granted patents from
                         this period can count as papers, but papers and patents
                         representing the same work will not be double-counted.

                         Candidates with industry experience should have at least 6
                         publications in high reputed journals or conferences and there
                         should be at least one granted patent for every year of industry
                         experience. Each year with a provable lead role in the design and
                         development of a cutting-edge product or application can be used
                         to provide a relaxation of 1 paper or patent per year for the
                         assessment period.

                         Ph.D. guidance:
                         Candidates should be the supervisor of at least one Ph.D. student,
                         who has either graduated or is in an advanced stage. (At IITB,
                         students are considered to be at an advanced stage when they
                         complete their pre-synopsis and are ready to submit the thesis for
                         external review). Being a co-guide will count as 0.5 student. This
                         criterion of Ph.D. guidance of students may be relaxed for
                         candidates with excellent research records, if they are from
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      industry/research labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic institutions.
                      Other criteria:
                      If a candidate does not meet the above minimum requirements of
                      publications and PhD guidance, then demonstrated scholarship
                      through the following avenues may be considered for at most one
                      of the requirements. The Centre must strongly recommend the
                      exemption(s).
                         1. High quality books (including textbooks), monographs, and
                            book chapters can be counted towards scholarship. (Double
                            counting to be avoided if said books are part of research
                            papers).
                         2. High quality products developed by the applicant.
                            Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation scores
                            or feedback from top experts. This criterion has to be used
                            very sparingly.
                         3. Candidates with more years of research experience are
                            expected to have correspondingly higher research
                            achievements.
                      Professor
                      Publications:
                      (1) A minimum of 20 post-PhD publications in reputed journals or
                      conferences (as defined in the eligibility for Assistant Professors);
                      up to 4 granted patents can count as papers, but papers and
                      patents representing the same work will not be double-counted.
                      (2) Candidates applying from academic institutions should have a
                      minimum of 8 publications in reputed journals or conferences during
                      their position in the assessment period. Up to 2 granted patents
                      from this period can count as papers, but papers and patents
                      representing the same work will not be double-counted.
                      (3) Candidates with industry experience should have at least 6
                      publications in reputed journals or conferences and at least one
                      granted patent for every year of industry experience. Each year with
                      a provable lead role in the design and development of a
                      cutting-edge product or application can be used to provide a
                      relaxation of 1 paper or patent per year.
                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students
                      who have graduated at least one of which is solely guided by the
                      candidate. Being a co-guide counts as 0.5 student. This criterion of
                      Ph.D. guidance of students may be relaxed for candidates with
                      excellent research records, if they are from industry or research
                      labs or academic institutions that do not grant PhDs.
                      Other criteria:
                      If a candidate does not meet the above minimum requirements of
                      publications and PhD guidance, then demonstrated scholarship
                      through the following avenues may be considered for at most one
                      of the requirements. The department must strongly recommend the
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      exemption(s).
                         1. High quality books (including textbooks), monographs, and
                            book chapters can be counted towards scholarship. (Double
                            counting to be avoided if said books are part of research
                            papers).
                         2. High quality products developed by the applicant that are
                            outstanding.
                         3. Exceptional quality papers, as evidenced by citation scores
                            or feedback from top experts. Highly prestigious research
                            awards like IEEE or ACM Fellows, Swarna Jayanthi and
                            Bhatnagar Fellowship. This criterion has to be used very
                            sparingly.
                         4. Candidates with more years of research experience are
                            expected to have correspondingly higher research
                            achievements.

22    Centre for      Associate Professor
      Semiconductor
                      (1) Publications: At least 9 research publications in reputed
      Technologies    journals included in Scopus/SCI index, as first author, or with
      (SemiX)         equivalent contribution; of which at least 6 should be during the
                      post-PhD period as first or last author, or with equivalent
                      contribution. The aforementioned equivalence for publications
                      would be applied.
                      (2) Teaching: Candidates from academic background must have
                      taught at least 2 different theory courses as the primary instructor. A
                      candidate from industrial or pure research background must have
                      demonstrated the ability to teach. Demonstrable effort towards
                      instructional lab development is desirable and will be given due
                      consideration.
                      (3) PhD Guidance: A candidate from an academic background
                      must have at least 1 PhD student graduated, or thesis submitted,
                      as the primary guide. A candidate from industrial or pure research
                      background must have demonstrated ability to mentor PhD level
                      R&D.
                      (4) Research Grants: A candidate from an academic background
                      must have got at least 1 sponsored project from an external funding
                      agency; significant contribution to large projects for shared
                      institutional facilities is desirable. A candidate from industrial or pure
                      research background must have demonstrated ability to generate
                      funding.
                      Professor

                      (1) Publications: At least 15 research publications in reputed
                      journals included in Scopus/SCI index, as first author, or with
                      equivalent contribution; of which at least 12 should be during the
                      post-PhD period as first or last author, or with equivalent
                      contribution. The aforementioned equivalence for publications
                      would be applied.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.


                      (2) Teaching: Candidates from academic background must have
                      taught at least 2 different theory courses as the primary instructor. A
                      candidate from industrial or pure research background must have
                      demonstrated the ability to teach. Demonstrable effort towards
                      instructional lab development is desirable and will be given due
                      consideration.
                      (3) PhD Guidance: A candidate from an academic background
                      must have graduated at least 1 PhD student as the primary guide;
                      and have at least 1 more student either graduated or thesis
                      submitted. A candidate from industrial or pure research background
                      must have significant demonstrated experience of mentoring PhD
                      level R&D.
                      (4) Research Grants: A candidate from an academic background
                      must have got at least 2 sponsored projects from an external
                      funding agency; significant contribution to large projects for shared
                      institutional facilities is desirable. A candidate from industrial or pure
                      research background must have significant demonstrated
                      experience of generating funding.

23    Centre for      Associate Professor
      Systems and
      Control         Publications criteria:
      Engineering     ● The candidate should have, in total, a minimum of 6 publications
                      accepted in journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or
                      abstracted in mathscinet.
                      ● In addition to the above minimum specified the candidate must
                      have, on average, at least 1 additional publication for every full year
                      after the first full year since the completion of their Ph.D., that are
                      accepted in journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or
                      abstracted in mathscinet.
                      ● Each patent granted will be counted as equivalent to two journal
                      publications and each patent filed will be counted as equivalent to
                      0.5 journal publications for the above criteria.
                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      ● The candidate should have supervised/co-supervised at least one
                      Ph.D. student who has either graduated or is in an advanced stage
                      of graduation. Advanced stage is when the student has either
                      completed pre-synopsis or has at least 1 publication, primarily
                      authored by the student, accepted in a journal indexed in
                      INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or abstracted in mathscinet, produced
                      from the doctoral work.
                      Any other eligibility criteria:
                      ● In case the candidate does not meet the publication criteria, then
                      books/monographs may be considered towards meeting the
                      criteria.
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                         Professor

                         Publications criteria:
                         ● The candidate should have, in total, a minimum of 16 publications
                         accepted in journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or
                         abstracted in mathscinet.
                         ● In addition to the above minimum specified the candidate must
                         have, on average, at least 1 additional publication for every full year
                         after the first full year since the completion of their Ph.D., that are
                         accepted in journals indexed in INSPEC/Scopus/SCIE and/or
                         abstracted in mathscinet.
                         ● Each patent granted will be counted as equivalent to two journal
                         publications and each patent filed will be counted as equivalent to
                         0.5 journal publications for the above criteria.

                         Ph.D. guidance:
                         ● The candidate should have supervised/co-supervised at least two
                         Ph.D. students who have graduated and another who has
                         graduated or is in an advanced stage of graduation.

                         Advanced stage is when the student has either completed
                         pre-synopsis or has at least 1 publication, primarily authored by the
                         student, accepted in a journal indexed in INSPEC / Scopus / SCIE
                         and/or abstracted in mathscinet, produced from the doctoral work.
                         The candidate should be the main supervisor of at least one of
                         these students.

                         Any other eligibility criteria:
                         ● In case the candidate does not meet the publication criteria, then
                         books/monographs may be considered towards meeting the
                         criteria.

24    Centre for         Associate Professor
      Technology
      Alternatives for   Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period which is
      Rural Areas        at Assistant Professor Grade I level)
      (C-TARA)           High quality research, evidenced by publications in Scopus/SCI
                         indexed journals/conferences, book chapters, patents (granted),
                         and important case studies. Candidates should have, in total, a
                         minimum of 10 publications in Scopus/SCI indexed journals.
                         Candidates should also have a minimum of 6 publications during
                         their assessment period including minimum 3 publications in
                         international peer reviewed journals. While the remaining 3
                         publications may come in the following forms–
                         ● book chapters/conference proceedings
                         ● granted patent
                         ● published case studies/monographs
                         Masters’ Project guidance:- Candidates should have guided at
                         least 6 Master’s students.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Ph.D. guidance:- Candidates should be the main supervisor of at
                      least one Ph.D. student, who has either graduated or completed
                      presynopsis.

                      Projects/Research Grants:-
                      At least one extramural research project (sponsored) initiated as a
                      PI in the current position.

                      Other desirable criteria: Candidate should have demonstrated
                      interest and ability to:
                      (1) identify and formalise problems of relevance to broader society,
                      and this may be demonstrated by: (i) key formal interactions with
                      ground       agencies     and    elected    bodies     leading    to
                      consultancy/technology output useful to local agency. (ii)
                      demonstrated technology and/or policy intervention.
                      (2) teach in the area of technology and development.

                      Professor

                      Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                      High quality research, evidenced by publications in Scopus/SCI
                      indexed journals/conferences, book chapters, patents (filed and
                      granted), and important case studies. Candidates should have, in
                      total, a minimum of 18 publications in Scopus/SCI indexed journals.
                      Candidates should also have a minimum of 10 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI indexed journals during their assessment period
                      including minimum 6 publications in international peer reviewed
                      journals. While the remaining 4 publications may come in the
                      following forms –
                      ● book chapters/conference proceedings
                      ● granted patent
                      ● published case studies/monographs

                      Teaching:
                      Candidates should have taught a variety of courses (minimum 4
                      different courses).

                      Masters Project guidance:
                      Candidates should have guided at least 8 Master’s students.

                      Ph.D. guidance: Candidates should be the supervisor of at least
                      two Ph.D. students who have graduated or at least one student
                      graduated and one completed presynopsis.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      At least two extramural research projects (sponsored) initiated as a
                      PI in the current position and one completed as a PI during the
                      assessment period.

                      Other desirable criteria: Candidate should have demonstrated
                      interest and ability to:
                      (1) identify and formalise problems of relevance to broader society,
Sr.   Academic Unit        Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                           and this may be demonstrated by: (i) key formal interactions with
                           ground      agencies      and    elected    bodies   leading   to
                           consultancy/technology output useful to local agency. (ii)
                           demonstrated technology and/or policy intervention.
                           (2) teach in the area of technology and development.

25    Centre for           Associate Professor
      Traditional Indian
      Knowledge and        In addition to the criteria mentioned for the post of Assistant
      Skills (CTIKS)       Professor, the candidates must satisfy the following criteria.

                           Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                           Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of seven
                           peer-reviewed publications in reputed journals or conference
                           proceedings, listed in Scopus/Science Citation index. Candidates
                           should also have a minimum of four peer-reviewed publications in
                           reputed journals or conference proceedings, listed in Scopus/
                           Science Citation index, during their assessment period.

                           Teaching:
                           Candidates should have taught at least an average of one full
                           core/elective course per year during the assessment period,
                           excluding periods of long leaves.

                           Ph.D. guidance:
                           Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
                           Ph.D. student, who has either graduated or is at an advanced
                           stage. Advanced stage is when the student has completed
                           pre-synopsis. For co-supervision, the candidate should specify
                           his/her contribution to the thesis work of the Ph.D. student.

                           Projects/Research Grants:
                           It is desirable that candidates from universities/ colleges/ research
                           institutes should have been awarded at least one sponsored
                           research grant. This criterion is not applicable for those applying
                           from industry.

                           Professor

                           In addition to the criteria mentioned for the post of Assistant
                           Professor, the candidates must satisfy the following criteria.

                           Publications criteria (overall and Assessment Period):
                           Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of twelve
                           peer-reviewed publications in reputed journals or conference
                           proceedings, listed in Scopus/Science Citation index. Candidates
                           should also have a minimum of six peer-reviewed publications in
                           reputed journals or conference proceedings, listed in Scopus/
                           Science Citation index, during their assessment period.

                           Teaching:
                           Candidates should have taught at least an average of one full
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      core/elective course per year during the assessment period,
                      excluding periods of long leaves.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least two
                      Ph.D. students, who have graduated. For co-supervision, the
                      candidate should specify his/her contribution to the thesis work of
                      the Ph.D. student.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      It is desirable that candidates from universities/ colleges/ research
                      institutes should have undertaken at least a few sponsored
                      research projects with substantial grants from well-established
                      funding agencies. This criterion is not applicable for those applying
                      from industry.

26    Centre of       Associate Professor
      Studies in
      Resources       Publications criteria:
      Engineering     Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 8 publications in
      (CSRE)          Scopus/SCI indexed journals. Patent(s) granted and Book(s)
                      published will be considered equivalent to journal publications.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      The candidate should have graduated one Ph.D. student. If the
                      candidate is a co-supervisor of a student who has graduated, it will
                      be counted as guiding ¹⁄� a student. The count will be treated as 1
                      for the main supervisor, even if there is a co-supervisor.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      The applicant is expected to have sponsored/consultancy project(s)
                      with a total sanctioned grant of approximately Rs. 20 lakhs. For
                      candidates from industry: the candidate should be involved in
                      execution of projects related to geoinformatics and earth
                      observation.

                      Professor

                      Publications criteria:
                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of 14 publications in
                      Scopus/SCI indexed journals. Out of the above, the candidate must
                      have a minimum of 6 publications in Scopus/SCI indexed journals
                      as Associate Professor. Patent(s) granted and Book(s) published
                      will be considered equivalent to journal publications.

                      Teaching Criteria:
                      Candidates should have taught at least one course per semester as
                      Associate Professor.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      The candidate should have graduated two Ph.D. students. If the
                      candidate is a co-supervisor of a student who has graduated, it will
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                         be counted as guiding ¹⁄� a student. The count will be treated as 1
                         for the main supervisor, even if there is a co-supervisor.

                         Projects/Research Grants:
                         The applicant is expected to have sponsored/consultancy project(s)
                         with a total sanctioned grant of approximately Rs. 50 lakhs. For
                         candidates from industry: the candidate should be involved in
                         execution of projects related to geoinformatics and earth
                         observation.

27    Koita Centre for   Associate Professor
      Digital Health
      (KCDH)             Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of eight (8)
                         publications in reputed journals or peer reviewed conferences.

                         Candidates should also have a minimum of four (4) publications in
                         reputed journals or peer reviewed conferences during their
                         assessment period.

                         Reputed Journals or Conference Proceedings with inclusion in
                         Scopus/SCI index, Math-SCI, SciMajor index, Core Ranking (B or
                         higher), ABDC list (for economics, statistics), medical journals with
                         high impact factor.

                            ●   Reputed peer reviewed conference proceedings will be
                                counted at par with reputed journals.
                            ●   Each of up to three(3) granted patents in the Healthcare or
                                Bio domain can be counted as equivalent to 1 publication.
                            ●   Avoid double counting of patents and publications

                         Digital health oriented lab and product development efforts
                         (technology, product, process, protocols, etc.) that have reached a
                         stage of maturity viz., peer-reviewed demonstration of
                         proof-of-concept such as in the form of acceptance by a funding
                         agency or an industry for enhancement of TRL, deployment, etc.,
                         may be considered as equivalent to one or up to two original
                         research publication(s) in Scopus (or equivalent) indexed journals.

                         Masters' Project guidance:
                         Candidates should have guided or co-guided at least four (4)
                         Master’s/Dual Degree students during the assessment period.

                         Ph.D. guidance:
                         Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least one
                         Ph.D. student, who has either graduated or is in an advanced
                         stage. Advanced stage is when the student has completed
                         pre-synopsis or has at least one(1) publications produced from the
                         doctoral work.

                         The criteria of guidance of students may be relaxed for candidates
                         with excellent research records, if they are from industry/research
                         labs/non-Ph.D. granting academic institutions.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.


                      Teaching experience:
                      Candidates should have demonstrated an excellent teaching record
                      in the assessment period. Candidates should have taught at least
                      an average of 2 full semester courses per year during the
                      assessment period, excluding periods of long leaves. The criteria
                      may be relaxed for candidates with excellent research records, if
                      they are from industry/hospitals/research labs.

                      Professor

                      Candidates should have, in total, a minimum of fifteen (15)
                      publications in reputed journals or peer reviewed conferences.

                      Candidates should also have a minimum of six (6) publications in
                      reputed journals or peer reviewed conferences during their
                      assessment period.

                      Reputed Journals or Conference Proceedings with inclusion in
                      Scopus/SCI index, Math-SCI, SciMajor index, Core Ranking (B or
                      higher), ABDC list (for economics, statistics), medical journals with
                      high impact factor.

                      ● Reputed conference proceedings at par with reputed journals.
                      ● Each of up to 3 granted patents in the Healthcare or Bio domain
                      can be counted as equivalent to 1 publication.
                      ● Avoid double counting of patents and publications.

                      Masters’ Project guidance:
                      Candidates should have guided at least eight (8) Master’s students
                      during the assessment period.

                      Ph.D. guidance:
                      Candidates should be the supervisor/ co-supervisor of at least two
                      Ph.D. students, who have either graduated or are in an advanced
                      stage. Advanced stage is when the student has completed
                      pre-synopsis or has at least one publication produced from the
                      doctoral work.

                      Projects/Research Grants:
                      At least one project/ Research grant at the level of Associate
                      professor.

                      Teaching scores:
                      Candidates should have demonstrated an excellent teaching record
                      in the assessment period. Candidates should have taught at least
                      an average of two full semester courses per year during the
                      assessment period, excluding periods of long leaves.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

28    Motilal Oswal     Associate Professor
      Centre for
      Capital Markets   Educational Qualifications:
                        Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                        preceding degree in the relevant discipline (Financial Markets,
                        Financial Economics, Finance, Banking, Insurance, Financial
                        Analytics, Fintech, Application of AI/ML in Finance, etc.) and a good
                        academic record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty
                        position in Accounting should have CA with Ph.D. in Accounting or
                        Finance.

                        Experience:
                        A minimum of 6 years post-Ph.D. teaching/research/professional
                        experience of which at least 3 years should be at the level of
                        Assistant Professor Grade I in IIMs, IITs, IISc, IISERs or at an
                        equivalent level in any other Indian/Foreign Universities/
                        Institutions/Industries of comparable level and reputation.

                        Publications:
                        Candidate should have published a minimum of 8 papers in reputed
                        journals, out of which at least 4 in B or higher-level journals listed in
                        ABDC, ABS journal list (level 2 and above).

                        Teaching:
                        The candidate should have taught core and elective courses in the
                        MBA     programme      (or   other    Masters   Programmes      in
                        Finance/Financial Markets), and should be able to teach doctoral
                        (Ph.D.) courses in financial markets. The candidates with industry
                        experience are exempt from this.

                        Ph.D. Guidance:
                        The candidate should be the supervisor of at least one Ph.D.
                        student, who has graduated or is in advanced stage. The
                        candidates with industry experience are exempt from this.

                        Professor

                        Educational Qualifications:
                        Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                        preceding degree in the relevant discipline (Financial Markets,
                        Financial Economics, Finance, Banking, Insurance, Financial
                        Analytics, Fintech, Application of AI/ML in Finance, etc.) and a good
                        academic record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty
                        position in Accounting should have CA with Ph.D. in Accounting or
                        Finance.

                        Experience:
                        A minimum of 10 years post Ph.D. teaching/research/professional
                        experience of which at least 4 years should be at the level of
                        Associate Professor in IIMs, IITs, IISc, IISERs, or at an equivalent
                        level in any other Indian/Foreign Universities/Institutions of
                        comparable level and reputation.
Sr.   Academic Unit      Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                         Publications:
                         Candidate should have published a minimum of 12 papers in
                         reputed journals, out of which at least 6 in B or higher-level journals
                         listed in ABDC, ABS journal list (level 2 and above).

                         Teaching:
                         The candidate should have taught core and elective courses in the
                         MBA programme (or other Masters Programmes in Finance/
                         Financial Markets), and should be able to teach doctoral (Ph.D.)
                         courses in financial markets. The candidates with industry
                         experience are exempt from this.

                         Ph.D. Guidance:
                         Candidate should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students,
                         who have graduated (defence viva-voce successfully completed).

                         Desirable Criteria for both Associate Professor and Professor:
                         The following criteria may be taken into account when considering
                         the case of candidates applying for the position of Associate
                         Professor and Professor. These are desirable criteria and NOT the
                         essential criteria for shortlisting.

                         Administrative responsibilities assigned by academic units/ institute
                         and participation in institute level activities (e.g. Faculty
                         Coordinator/ GATE/ JAM/ JEE related activities).

                         Externally visible R&D related activities such as peer-review
                         processes, membership of national and/or international committees
                         of importance, associate editorship/ editorship of national and
                         international     journals  of   repute/presenting   papers     in
                         national/international conferences, sponsored research projects,
                         etc.

                         Contribution to outreach activities such as executive training
                         programmes, MDP/CEP courses, conducting workshops, research
                         symposiums, conferences, activities of professional organizations,
                         consultancy projects, membership of boards of organizations, etc.

                         The shortlisted candidates will be invited to present a research
                         seminar, and may be invited for selection interview based on the
                         seminar feedback. The candidates may note that mere fulfilment of
                         eligibility criteria does NOT entitle them to be shortlisted. The
                         decision of the institute shall be final and will be subject to
                         requirements of the time.

29    Desai Sethi        Associate Professor
      School of
      Entrepreneurship   Educational Qualifications (same as Assistant Professor):
                         (i) 4-year Bachelor’s degree in any relevant discipline or Master’s
                         degree in Design, Management, or Arts/Sciences.
                         (ii) Ph.D degree with research focused on the indicated areas of
                         specialization.
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      Teaching Experience:
                      Candidates should have at least 2 years of teaching or guest
                      lecture experience, preferably related to technology innovation/
                      entrepreneurship.

                      Student Guidance:
                      Candidates should have guided/co-guided at least one PhD student
                      (graduated or pre-synopsis or with one publication) OR two Masters
                      students. Relaxation may apply for candidates from industry or
                      non-PhD granting institutions.

                      Publications Criteria:
                      Minimum 6 publications in the specialization area (books/chapters,
                      case studies, granted patents). Must be Scopus or SCI indexed. At
                      least 3 publications in the last 4 years.

                      Sponsored Projects:
                      Candidate should be PI or Co-PI of at least one R&D/industry
                      project supported by external agencies.

                      Other Eligibility Criteria:
                      Candidates should have commercialized at least one research
                      project, OR founded/co-founded a startup, OR headed an R&D
                      group/innovation lab/incubator.

                      Exceptional Clause:
                      Exceptional performance in one category may compensate for
                      shortage in up to two other requirements.

                      Professor

                      Educational Qualifications (same as Assistant Professor):
                      (i) 4-year Bachelor’s degree in relevant disciplines or Master’s
                      degree in Design, Management or Arts/Sciences.
                      (ii) Ph.D degree with specialization in relevant areas.

                      Teaching Experience:
                      Minimum 4 years of teaching or guest lecture experience,
                      preferably in technology innovation/entrepreneurship.

                      Student Guidance:
                      Should have guided at least two PhD students OR four Masters
                      students. Relaxation for strong R&D profiles from industry/non-PhD
                      institutions.

                      Publications Criteria:
                      At least 12 publications in specialization areas, and minimum 6
                      publications in the last four years. Must be Scopus/SCI indexed or
                      equivalent.

                      Sponsored Projects:
                      Should be PI/Co-PI      of   at least two externally supported
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      R&D/industry projects.

                      Other Eligibility Criteria:
                      Should have commercialized at least two research projects OR
                      founded/co-founded a startup OR headed an R&D/ innovation/
                      incubation unit.

                      Exceptional Clause:
                      Exceptional performance may compensate for shortage in up to two
                      requirements.

30    IDC School of   Associate Professor:
      Design          Ph. D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                      preceding degree and an excellent academic record throughout. A
                      minimum of 6 years teaching/research/professional experience
                      (excluding the duration of the tenure of Ph.D.) of which at least 3
                      years should be at the level of Assistant Professor Grade I in IITs,
                      IISc, IISERs, IIMs or at an equivalent level in any other
                      Indian/Foreign Universities/Institutions/Industries of comparable
                      level. The candidate should have demonstrated research ability
                      with an excellent record of publications in reputed journals and
                      conferences and must have supervised Ph.D. students. Candidates
                      should also have demonstrated excellent teaching abilities at higher
                      educational institutions. It is desirable that the candidate has carried
                      out laboratory development/course development/ technology
                      development/ innovative work leading to patents and has generated
                      sufficient funding for research. The criteria of supervision of Ph.D.
                      students and teaching at higher educational institutions may be
                      relaxed for candidates who have an exceptional research/practice
                      record.

                      Professor:
                      Ph. D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                      preceding degree and an excellent academic record throughout. A
                      minimum of 10 years teaching/research/professional experience
                      (excluding the duration of the tenure of Ph.D.) of which at least 4
                      years should be at the level of Associate Professor in IITs, IISc,
                      IISERs, IIMs or at an equivalent level in any other Indian/Foreign
                      Universities/Institutions of comparable level. The candidate should
                      have demonstrated leadership in research in a specific area, with
                      an excellent record of publications in reputed journals and
                      conferences and should have graduated Ph.D. students.
                      Candidates should also have demonstrated excellent teaching
                      abilities at higher educational institutions. It is desirable that the
                      candidate has carried out laboratory development/course
                      development/ technology development/ innovative work leading to
                      patents and has generated sufficient funding for research. It is also
                      desirable that the candidate has external recognition in the area of
                      specialization. Teaching and Ph.D. guidance requirements may be
                      relaxed for candidates who have an exceptional research/practice
                      record.
Sr.   Academic Unit     Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

31    Shailesh J.       Associate Professor
      Mehta School of
      Management        Educational Qualifications:
                        Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                        preceding degree in the relevant discipline and a good academic
                        record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty position in
                        Accounting should have a Ph.D. in Accounting or CA with Ph.D. in
                        Accounting or Finance.
                        Experience:
                        A minimum of 6 years post Ph.D. teaching/research/professional
                        experience of which at least 3 years should be at the level of
                        Assistant Professor Grade I in IIMs, IITs, IISc, IISERs or at an
                        equivalent level in any other Indian/Foreign Universities/
                        Institutions/Industries of comparable level.
                        Publications:
                        Candidate should have published a minimum of 8 papers in reputed
                        journals, out of which at least 4 in B or higher-level journals listed in
                        ABDC, ERA or ABS journal list (level 2 and above), or Scopus
                        Indexed Journals (CiteScore of 3 and above).
                        During Assessment period: Minimum 3 publications in B or
                        higher-level journals listed in ABDC, ERA or ABS journal list (level 2
                        and above), or Scopus Indexed Journals (CiteScore of 3 and
                        above).
                        Assessment period is the period from when the candidate was
                        employed as Assistant Professor (Grade I or equivalent).
                        Teaching:
                        The candidates should have taught core and elective courses in the
                        MBA programme, and should be able to teach doctoral (Ph.D.)
                        courses in management. The candidates with industry experience
                        are exempt from this.
                        PhD Guidance:
                        Candidate should be the supervisor of at least one Ph.D. student,
                        who has graduated or is in advanced stage. The candidates with
                        industry experience are exempt from this.
                        Professor
                        Educational Qualifications:
                        Ph.D. with a first class or equivalent (in terms of Grades) in the
                        preceding degree in a relevant discipline and a good academic
                        record throughout. The candidates applying for a faculty position in
                        Accounting should have a Ph.D. in Accounting or CA with Ph.D. in
                        Accounting or Finance.
                        Experience:
                        A minimum of 10 years post Ph.D. teaching/research/professional
                        experience of which at least 4 years should be at the level of
                        Associate Professor in IIMs, IITs, IISc, IISERs, or at an equivalent
Sr.   Academic Unit   Eligibility Criteria for Associate Professor and Professor
No.

                      level in any other Indian/Foreign         Universities/Institutions   of
                      comparable level.

                      Publications:
                      Candidate should have published a minimum of 12 papers in
                      reputed journals, out of which at least 6 in B or higher-level journals
                      listed in ABDC, ERA or ABS journal list (level 2 and above), or
                      Scopus Indexed Journals (CiteScore of 3 and above).

                      During Assessment period: Minimum 3 publications in B or
                      higher-level journals listed in ABDC, ERA or ABS journal list (level 2
                      and above), or Scopus Indexed Journals (CiteScore of 3 and
                      above).

                      Assessment period is the period from when the candidate was
                      employed as Associate Professor.

                      Teaching:
                      The candidates should have taught core and elective courses in the
                      MBA programme, and should be able to teach doctoral (Ph.D.)
                      courses in management. The candidates with industry experience
                      are exempt from this.

                      PhD Guidance:
                      Candidate should be the supervisor of at least two Ph.D. students,
                      who have graduated (defence viva-voce successfully completed).
