                            भारत सरकार/Government of India
                        संचार मं ालय/Ministry of Communication
                             डाक िवभाग /Department of Posts
                               (जीडीएस अनुभाग/GDS Section)

           Notification No : 17-12/2026-GDS dated 20th, August ,2026

     Gramin Dak Sevak (GDS) Online Engagement Schedule-II, July-2026.

      Applications are invited from the eligible candidates to fill vacant posts of
Gramin Dak Sevaks (GDSs) [i.e. Branch Postmaster (BPM)/Assistant Branch
Postmaster (ABPM)/Dak Sevaks] in different offices of the Department of Posts.
The details of the tentative vacant posts in each Circle/Division are given in
Annexure-I. The applications are to be submitted online at the following link:
https://indiapost.gov.in/gdsonlineengagement.

2.        Registration/Online application/Edit-correction Window:

       Only one registration is permitted per candidate for submission of the online
application. Multiple or duplicate registrations/applications are strictly
prohibited. If at any stage—before or after engagement—it is found that a candidate
has submitted duplicate or multiple applications, the candidature shall be cancelled or
appropriate action will be initiated under GDS (Conduct and Engagement) Rules,
2020.

       Candidates are not required to attach/upload any documents along with the
application form. However, they must upload their recent photograph and signature
on the portal as prescribed. Detailed instructions for registration and submission of
the online application are provided in Annexure-II. Candidates are advised to
carefully fill in all details in the registration and application forms and review them
thoroughly before final submission.

        In case any mistake is noticed after registration/submission of the application
form, candidates are not required to make registration again, but to rectify the
mistakes in registration/application form, an edit/correction window of two (02) days
will be provided after the stipulated closing date, during which candidates may edit or
correct their registration/application details.

The schedule for registration and the edit/correction window is as under:

 S.
                             Activity                               Schedule
 No.
                                                             31.08.2026 to 19.09.2026
     1.      Online One-Time Registration
                                                                 (upto 1700 Hrs)
           Submission of online applications                 02.09.2026 to 21.09.2026
  2.
                    and fee payment                              (upto 1700 Hrs)
                     Corrections in
            Registration/Application Forms,                  23.09.2026 to 24.09.2026
  3.
          including payment of the online fee,                   (upto 1700 Hrs)
                      if applicable.


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                  Page 1 of 38
3. SERVICE CONDITIONS AND                                    BRIEF   JOB   PROFILE   AND
RESIDENT/ACCOMMODATION:

       The service conditions, brief job profile and resident/accommodation of
different categories of GDS are as follows: -

        (i) The applicants must clearly understand that the GDSs are not regular
        employees of the Department/Central Government and their
        emoluments, allowances and other entitlements are not at par with
        the Central Government employees.

        (ii) Their service conditions are governed by the Department of Posts, Gramin
        Dak Sevaks (Conduct and Engagement) Rules, 2020 [referred to as GDS Rules],
        as revised from time to time and not framed under Article 309 of the
        Constitution of India.
        (iii) They are holders of Civil Posts outside the civil services of the
        state.
        (iv) They are required to serve, mostly, in rural areas to render the services of
        the Department.
        (v) As per Rule 3 A of the said GDS Rules, they are required to work for
        minimum for a period of four hours and a maximum of five hours a day, and
        they cannot be retained as Sevak beyond 65 years of age.
        (vi) A Sevak (Gramin Dak Sevak) should have another source of income besides
        the allowances to be paid by the Government for adequate means of livelihood
        for himself and his family.
        (vii) The candidates selected as BPMs are required to arrange
        accommodation for running the post office (called as Branch Post
        Office) at their own cost.
        (viii) The candidates are advised to carefully go through the said GDS Rules,
        which are available on the official website of the Department.


The brief job profiles of different categories of GDSs are as under:

i. BRANCH POSTMASTER (BPM)

The Job Profile of the Branch post Master include:

        a) Day-to-day postal operations of the Branch Post Office (B.O.) and India Post
           Payments Bank (IPPB) in the manner as prescribed by the Department from
           time to time.

        b) Marketing and promotions of products and services being provided by the
           Department and operating various services in the customer service centres
           (CSC) of the Department etc.



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                      Page 2 of 38
        c) In the single-handed BOs, BPMs have the overall responsibility of the
           smooth and timely functioning of the Office, including mail conveyance and
           mail delivery.

        d) In the BOs other than single-handed, the BPMs may be assisted by
           ABPM(s). However, BPM will be required to do combined duties of
           ABPM(s) as and when ordered or in the case of non-availability of ABPM
           (s). Any other work may also be assigned by superiors like Mail Overseer
           (M.O)/Inspector Post (IPO)/Assistant Superintendent of Post
           (ASPOs)/Superintendent of Post Offices (SPOs)/Senior Superintendent of
           Post Office (SSPOs) etc.

        e) Residence/Accommodation: The applicant selected as GDS BPM will
           have to provide accommodation for the Branch post Office after selection
           but before engagement. A declaration to this effect with details of
           accommodation is to be submitted before engagement. The applicant so
           selected will be required to reside in the post village (the village in which the
           BO is functioning) only. The accommodation should meet the standards as
           prescribed by this Directorate letter No. 17-02/2018-GDS dated 08.03.2019
           as amended from time to time.


ii. ASSISTANT BRANCH POSTMASTER (ABPM)

The Job Profile of the Assistant Branch post Master include:

    a) Sale of stamps/stationery, conveyance and delivery of mail at doorstep,
       exchange the mail with the account office etc., deposit/payments/other
       transactions of IPPB.

    b) To assist BPM in postal operations in a manner as prescribed by the
       Department from time to time.

    c) Marketing and promotions of products and services being provided by the
       Department and operating various services in the Customer Services Centres
       (CSC) of the Department etc.

    d) ABPM may also be required to do combined duties of the BPM as and when
       ordered or in case of non-availability of BPM in addition to his/her regular
       duties.

    e) Any other work assigned by superiors like MO/IPO/ASPO/SPOS/SSPOS etc.

    f) Residence: ABPMs are required to reside within the delivery jurisdictions of
       the Post Office (BO) concerned.

iii. DAK SEVAK

       Dak Sevaks may be engaged in Post Offices, Sorting Offices, Mail Offices,
Transit Mail Offices, Delivery Centres or any other office of the Department. The job
profile of a Dak Sevak includes the following duties:



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                      Page 3 of 38
     a) In Post Offices : Sale of stamps and stationery, conveyance and delivery of
        mail at the doorstep, deposits, payments and other transactions of India Post
        Payments Bank (IPPB), and any other duties assigned by the Postmaster/Sub
        Postmaster.

     b) In Sorting/Mail/Transit Mail Offices : Handling of mail, mail bags and
        parcels, transhipment of bags and other related duties.

     c) In Delivery Centres : Handling of mail, mail bags and parcels, transhipment
        of bags, delivery of mail and parcels, and other related duties.

     d) Assistance in the functioning of Post Offices : Dak Sevaks will assist the
        Postmaster/Sub-Postmaster/Officer-in-Charge in ensuring the smooth
        functioning of Departmental Post Offices. They may also be assigned duties
        relating to marketing, business procurement and any other work by the
        Postmaster or other senior officers, including the Sub Divisional and Divisional
        Heads.

     e) Residence : Dak Sevaks are required to reside within the delivery jurisdictions
        of the Post Office (HO/SO) to which they are attached.


4.          EMOLUMENTS AND ALLOWANCES:

       The GDSs are paid emoluments in the form of Time Related Continuity
Allowance (TRCA), which carry an annual increase of 3%, subject to fulfilment of
conditions, as given in the GDS Rules. They are also entitled to Dearness Allowance on
TRCA, as declared by the Govt. of India from time to time. The GDSs are also entitled
to some other allowances and social security benefits, which include, GDS Gratuity
and Service Discharge Benefit Scheme (akin to National Pension System applicable to
regular employees), whose details are given under the GDS Rules and official website
of the Department. The initial engagement of GDS is made in the following basic TRCA
Slabs:


     Sl No                   Category                               TRCA Slab

       1.                      BPM                           Rs.12,000/- to Rs.29,380/-

       2.               ABPM/Dak Sevak                       Rs.10,000/- to Rs.24,470/-


5.          ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA (FOR ALL GDS POSTS): -

5.1.        Age Limits :

            i.    Minimum age: 18 years

                   Maximum age: 40 years

                           [Subject to relaxations as per sub para (a) below]

            ii. Age will be determined as on the last date of submission of applications.


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                        Page 4 of 38
    a. Relaxations in upper age limit: -

  S.                          Category                       Permissible age relaxation
 No.

   1.      Schedule Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST)                      5 years

   2.            Other Backward Classes (OBC)                          3 years

   3.        Economically Weaker Sections (EWS)                     No relaxation

   4.        Persons with Benchmark Disabilities                      10 years
                               (PwBD)

   5.        Persons with Benchmark Disabilities                      13 years
                           (PwBD) + OBC

   6.        Persons with Benchmark Disabilities                      15 years
                          (PwBD) + SC/ST


5.2. QUALIFICATION AS ON THE DATE OF NOTIFICATION:

5.2.1. EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION

        (a)    Educational qualification for engagement of GDS is Secondary School
        Examination (SSE) pass certificate of 10th standard with passing marks in
        Mathematics and English conducted by any recognized Board of School
        Education by the Government of India/State Governments/ Union Territories
        in India. The candidates having equivalent qualification from any other board
        are not eligible to apply for engagement as GDS.

        (b)    The applicant should have studied the local language at least up to 10th
        Standard from a recognized board. The details of post-wise local language
        prescribed by the Department is given in Annexure-III.


        (c)   Special Provisions in respect of knowledge of the local
        language for engagement of GDS in the state of Arunachal Pradesh,
        Goa, Sikkim and Nagaland :

        i. Arunachal Pradesh

               The Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh has declared 23 tribal
        languages/dialects spoken in the state as 'Third Language' vide their
        Notification No. SJETA-1601/10/2023 dated 09.02.2024. Therefore, the
        Department has made special provision for engagement of GDS in the State of
        Arunachal Pradesh, which will be applicable for five years from 01.03.2024, as
        under:


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                       Page 5 of 38
                Candidates applying for engagement as GDS in the offices situated in
                Arunachal Pradesh, should have the knowledge both, the languages, i.e,
                (i) 'English or Hindi' studied at least upto 10th standard and (ii) any of
                the tribal local languages/dialects, notified as third language from time
                to time by the Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh. As these tribal local
                languages/dialects are not taught upto 10th Standard at present in
                schools, the proficiency of the same in the will be ascertained by the
                Department based on certificate to be issued by the concerned Deputy
                Commissioners or any other officer authorized by the Government of
                Arunachal Pradesh in this behalf, which will have to be produced by the
                shortlisted candidate at the time of physical verification of the
                documents. Failure to produce this document will entail cancellation of
                candidature.

                (Refer OM No. 17-11/2019-GDS dated 01.03.2024)

        ii. Goa

                Candidates applying for GDS posts in post offices located in Goa must
                have studied Konkani or Marathi at the 10th standard level. However,
                candidates who have studied only Marathi must also possess
                proficiency in Konkani. In cases where Konkani has not been studied
                up to the 10th standard, the candidate’s proficiency shall be verified
                based on a certificate issued by Goa Konkani Akademi or any other
                Government-authorised authority, as nominated by the State of Goa
                for the purpose.

                (Refer OM No. 17-11/2019-GDS dated 07.10.2025)

        iii. Sikkim

                The Govt. of Sikkim has declared 19 tribal languages/dialects spoken in
                the state vide their Notification No. HOME/LAN-23/02/2024 dated
                16.12.2025. The local language(s) for the purpose of engagement of
                GDS in the Post Offices/other offices of the Department situated in the
                State of Sikkim shall be as under:

                         “English and any one of the following 12 languages —Nepali,
                         Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu, Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar, Sherpa,
                         Tamang, Sunuwar or Bhujel — studied at the 10th standard level.

                In cases where the candidate has not studied the aforesaid language(s)
                up to the 10th standard, proficiency in the concerned language shall be
                verified on the basis of a Certificate of Proficiency issued by the Joint
                Director (Languages & Text Book), Education Department,
                Government of Sikkim, or any other authority, duly notified by the
                Government of Sikkim in this behalf from time to time.

                (Refer OM No. 17-11/2019-GDS dated 05.01.2026)


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 6 of 38
        iv. Nagaland

                The 'local language of Nagaland for the purpose of engagement of GDS'
                in the state of Nagaland will be as under:

                         "English or Hindi [as compulsory or elective subject] studied at
                         least upto 10th standard and knowledge of any of the 19 tribal
                         local languages/dialects, notified by the Govt. of Nagaland vide
                         notification no. HOME/LAN-23/02/2024 dated 16.12.2025."

                For GDS engagement in the Offices of Nagaland, the
                proficiency/knowledge in the tribal local languages/dialects may be
                ascertained based on certification issued by the concerned Deputy
                Commissioners of the respective District, as these languages/dialects are
                not taught upto 10 th Standard at present in schools.

                The list of 19 tribal local languages/dialects, notified vide ibid
                notification, the Govt. of Nagaland is provided as under :

                      Angami                    Konyak          Sangtam

                         Ao                       Kachari           Sumi

                       Chang                       Lotha           Tikhir

                   Chakhesang                      Mikir         Yimkhiung

                        Garo                       Phom           Zellang

                 Khiamniungan                    Pochury

                        Kuki                     Rengma
                 (Refer OM No. 17-11/2019-GDS. dated 21.05.2026)


5.2.2. OTHER QUALIFICATIONS: -

  i.    Knowledge of computers.
 ii.    Knowledge of cycling.
iii.    Adequate means of livelihood.


6. RESERVATION:

(a) Candidates seeking reservation benefits available for SC/ ST/OBC/PwBD/ EWS
must ensure that they are entitled to such reservation as per the eligibility prescribed
in this notification. They should also be in possession of a valid certificate in the
prescribed format in support of their claim.



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                    Page 7 of 38
(b) Format of Certificates: Applicants who wish to be considered for reserved
vacancies or seek age relaxation, will have to produce the requisite certificate from the
competent authority in the prescribed Format in Annexure-V at the time of physical
verification of documents. In case of failure to produce the certificate in
original, their candidature will be cancelled. In case of non-availability of caste
certificate in the prescribed format, the shortlisted candidate, subject to verification of
other documents, would be provisionally selected and would be required to submit the
same within 15 days from the date of offer of provisional engagement. Failure in
submitting the certificate during this period, her/his candidature will entail rejection
of the candidate, and the post will be offered to the next available candidate in the
subsequent lists to be issued by the Department. The conditions for issue of offer of
provisional engagement and process for issuance of lists of shortlisted candidates are
given in para (8) & 9 below.

(c) There will be no relaxation in the upper age limit to EWS applicants. However, the
persons belonging to EWS who are not covered under the scheme of reservation for
SC, ST and OBC shall get 10% reservation in engagement to the GDS posts.

(d) A person seeking engagement on the basis of reservation to EWS must ensure that
she/he is in possession of a valid Income Certificate in accordance with the guidelines
of the Central Government given in the Department of Personnel and Training OM
No. 36039/1/2019-Estt (Res) dated 31.01.2019.

(e) A person seeking engagement on the basis of reservation of OBC/EWS may refer
to the orders of DoPT/DoP mentioned para 6 of the Notification dated 12.07.2024,
DoPT OM dated 25.07.2003 in the matter of crucial date in respect of OBC Certificate
and clarification of the Staff Selection Commission dated 09.08.2024 in respect of
EWS Certificate to decide the matter in individual cases. For the sake of clarity, it is
informed that in respect of OBC, the candidate should not fall in the creamy layer as
on the closing date of the of application irrespective of its date of issue. [Refer order
No. 17-08/2017-GDS dated 09.10.2024]

(f) In respect of EWS, the certificate of the relevant financial year is to be accepted if
it is valid as on the last date of submission of the online application, irrespective of its
date of issue. In both cases, the candidate should, however, be in possession of the
valid certificate at the time of verification of documents even if it is issued after the
closing date of receipt of applications. [Refer order No. 17-08/2017-GDS dated
09.10.2024]

(g) Engagement of GDS will be subject to the instructions issued by the Department
of Posts regarding the reservation of SC/ST/OBC/EWS/PWD categories. The
applicants may go through the following instructions available on the official website
of the Department: -

  i.    No. 19-11/97-ED & TRG dated 27.11 1997
 ii.    No. 17-08/2017-GDS dated 26.02.2019
iii.    No.17-08/2017-GDS dated 02.06.2022
 iv.    No. 17-09/2019-GDS dated 26.02.2019



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                      Page 8 of 38
  v.          No. 17-08/2017-GDS dated 09.10.2024
 vi.          No. 17-08/2017-GDS dated 06.01.2025

(h) Candidates with only benchmark physical disability will be considered as PwBD
and entitled to age-relaxation/ reservation for Persons with Disabilities. Further, in
case of a temporary disability certificate, the clarification issued by letter No. SC-
12/20/2025-RC-DOP Dated 22-12-2025 may be referred to, which inter alia provides
as under: -

       (i)       That the disability condition falling under the category “likely to
                 improve” under the temporary disability category are not eligible for
                 reservation.

       (ii)      That the condition falling under other categories, i.e, progressive, non-
                 progressive or not likely to improve, are to be treated as eligible for
                 reservation.

    (iii)           The permissible disability for PwBD applicants is as under: -

Name of the Posts Revised Sub Categories of disability suitable Percentage of
                  for the post.                                 reservation in
                                                                each category

                             A) Low Vision (LV);                                      1%

                             B) D(Deaf), HH (Hard of Hearing)                          1%
     Branch     C) One Arm (OA), One Leg (OL), Leprosy Cured,
   Postmaster Dwarfism, Acid Attack Victim, Both Leg
(BPM)/Assistant (BL)*, Spinal Infirmity/ Spinal Deformity                             1%
     Branch     without any associated neurological/ limb
   Postmaster dysfunction**
  (ABPM)/Dak
                D) Specific learning disability/ Intellectual Disability
     Sevaks
                             E) Multiple disabilities from amongst the disabilities   1%
                             mentioned at (a) to (d) above, except Deaf and
                             Blindness.



*Note 1 – Persons having disability in ‘Both Leg (BL)’ are eligible to apply for only on
the posts of Dak Sevaks, which involve both delivery and stationery duties. Wherever
candidates are selected in BL category for posts involving delivery duties, they will be
transferred and posted on any other suitable non-delivery assignments having stationery
duties.
**Note 2 - Persons with Spinal Deformity and Spinal Injury (SD/SI) with any
associated neurological/ limb dysfunction shall be covered under the respective subcategory,
such as One Arm (OA), One leg (OL) for all categories of GDS and Both Leg (BL) in case of Dak
sevak only as specified in Note 1 above.
Examples of multiple disabilities
               i.         Multiple disabilities under different categories:


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                            Page 9 of 38
                     An applicant with a benchmark disability under a different category, like
                     low vision (LV) under category (a) & One Arm (OA) benchmark
                     disability under category (c), will have to apply for the post under
                     category (DE) only.

         ii.         Multiple disabilities under the same categories

                     An applicant with multiple benchmark disabilities under the same
                     category, like One Arm (OA) and Acid Attack Victim benchmark
                     disability under category (c), she/he will have to apply in the same
                     category by selecting only one benchmark disability (in this instance,
                     category (C) and not under category E.


7. HOW TO APPLY

Applications       are     to    be     submitted
                                                in the online mode only at
https://indiapost.gov.in/gdsonlineengagement. Applications received from any other
mode shall not be entertained and no communication in this respect will be
entertained/replied. Detailed instructions for registration, payment of fee, documents
to be uploaded with the application, selection of posts etc. are given in Annexure-II.

8. SELECTION CRITERIA

(i) The applicants will be shortlisted for engagement on the basis of a system-generated
merit list.

(ii) The Merit list will be prepared on the basis of marks obtained/ conversion of
Grades/Points to marks (as explained in sub-paragraphs - iii to xiii below) in
Secondary School Examination of 10th standard of recognised Boards aggregated to
percentage to the accuracy of 4 decimals.

(iii) For applicants where the Secondary School Examination of 10th standard mark
sheet contains the “marks” as mentioned in each subject or “marks” and
“Grade/Points” both, their “marks’ will be worked out by taking into account the
'marks obtained'. In case any applicant applies with grades/points instead of
marks, his/her application will be liable for cancellation. However, if for any
particular subject (s) only grades are mentioned in the mark sheet, then for that
subject (s) grades can be mentioned and the same need not to be converted to
marks by the candidates.

(iv) For applicants having only grades, subject-wise marks will be arrived for each
subject, by applying the multiplying factor of 9.5 in the following manner:

               Grade               Grade Point               Multiplication factor

                A1                       10                          9.5

                A2                        9                          9.5




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                           Page 10 of 38
                B1                        8                    9.5

                B2                        7                    9.5

                C1                        6                    9.5

                C2                        5                    9.5

                 D                        4                    9.5


(v) In case of the marks lists contain the Grades/Points, marks will be reckoned by
taking the conversion of Grades and points with the multiplication factor (9.5) against
the maximum points or grade as 100.

(vi) Where Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) is also provided, the marks will
be arrived at by multiplying the CGPA by 9.5. Where individual grades in each subject
as well as CGPA is given, the higher of the two marks will be taken. It is to clarify
that the candidates are not required to convert their points/grades into
“marks” and are required to mention the grades/points only (wherever
applicable), while filling up the online application. The conversion of
grades/points to the marks would be carried out by the system before the declaration
of results for the purpose of arriving at the merit.

(vii) There are certain boards, like the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE), which
award both the Percentage and the Grade Points in the Secondary School certificate to
their candidates. In such cases, the merit will be generated based on the percentage
given in the marksheet. The applicants are, therefore, required to fill the 'Percentage'
of marks obtained against each subject, while filling up the application form. In case
an applicant applies with Grade Points instead of Percentage, his/her application will
be liable for disqualification.

(viii) “The State Board of School Examinations (SBSE), Tamilnadu" has not awarded
marks or grade points to their candidates in the Secondary level certificates for the
year 2020-2021 due to the Covid-19 Pandemic and instead awarded a pass certificate
to all the candidates. Therefore, the system will award a uniform 66.67% in such cases.
The candidate has to select "Pass" against each subject while applying online.

(ix) While preparing the merit list in case of tie among the applicants, the same would
be decided on the basis of the following priority order: -

      "DOB (Older in age), ST trans-woman, ST female, SC trans- woman, SC
female, OBC trans-woman, OBC female, EWS trans- woman, EWS female, UR trans-
woman, UR female, ST trans-male, ST Male, SC trans-male, SC Male, OBC trans-
male, OBC male, EWS trans- male, EWS male, UR trans-male, UR male.

      The Department would have the liberty and sole right to introduce
any additional criteria in case of 'Tie' to determine the merit. The decision
of the Department shall be final.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                  Page 11 of 38
(x) Applications submitted without complete data will be rejected. In case an applicant
uploads wrong documents/information and unnecessary documents, his/her
candidature will be rejected.

(xi) Shortlisted applicants will have to submit an undertaking in the format annexed
as Annexure-IX, regarding liability in case of furnishing fake/incorrect
information/details in the form.

(xii) Applicant should enter all the details such as name, Date of Birth, father's name
and mother's name, etc., strictly as per the SSC (Class X) marksheet.

(xiii) Applications with blurred/ illegible photographs/signatures will be rejected.


9. COMMUNICATION OF SELECTION AND PROCESS OF PHYSICAL
VERIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS:

(i) The list of applicants shortlisted for engagement will be released by the Department
on the GDS Online Engagement Portal. Upon declaration of the results, the shortlisted
candidates will be informed of the result and dates of physical verification etc, through
SMS on their registered mobile number as well as through email on the registered
email addresses. However, in case of non-receipt of SMS/Email on the registered
Mobile/Email address due to technical or any other reasons, the Department would
not be responsible, and no communication in this respect will be entertained.
Therefore, the applicants are advised to visit the website/Portal on a
regular basis for the latest updates.

(ii) Thereafter, the shortlisted candidates would be required to attend the office of the
designated authority, i.e., the Divisional/Unit Head of the Division/Unit where the
post is notified, for physical verification of documents and further engagement
formalities within a period of 15 days from the date of shortlisting. Candidates who fail
to report to the designated authority within the stipulated 15-day period will be
marked as ‘Non-turned up’ by the system/portal. Consequently, the system will block
further document verification for these candidates, and their candidature will be
automatically cancelled. While attending for document verification, the candidates
will be required to carry the following documents in original (as applicable) and two
sets of self-attested photocopies for submission:


       Marks sheet
       Identity proof
       Caste certificate
       PwBD certificate
       EWS Certificate
       Transgender certificate
       Date of Birth Proof




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 12 of 38
       Medical certificate issued by a medical officer of any Government
        Hospital/Government Dispensaries/Government Primary Health Centre, etc.
        (Compulsory)
       Certificate issued by the Competent Authority in respect of knowledge of
        tribal/local dialects or language in case of engagement in the state of Arunachal
        Pradesh, Sikkim, Goa or Nagaland.

(iii) The final selection of the shortlisted applicants will be subject to physical
verification of the original documents, done i.e. by the ENGAGING AUTHORITY
(Divisional Head/Unit Head of the Division/Unit where the vacancy is notified).
The ENGAGING AUTHORITY will conduct the physical verification of documents for
all the shortlisted GDS candidates. If no discrepancy is found and the documents are
found to match the originals, the verification will be deemed successful, and a system-
generated 'Offer of provisional engagement' will be issued immediately.

(iv) Upon successful verification by the ENGAGING AUTHORITY, the candidate will
be required to complete the pre-engagement formalities for joining within a period of
30 days from the date of ‘offer of provisional engagement’, which, inter-alia,
include prescribed basic training of 3 days, arrangement of accommodation etc.

(v) Failure to complete these formalities or not joining there after due to any reason
whatsoever would invite cancellation of the candidature immediately, on expiry of
the said stipulated period of 30 days, and the post will be offered to the
next candidate.

(vi) On successful completion the pre-engagement formalities, pending verification of
documents (EDUCATIONAL CASTE, DISABILITY CERTIFICATE ETC.) from the
issuing authorities and antecedent verification by the concerned Police Authorities, an
order of provisional engagement will be issued by the Engaging Authority and the
candidate will be allowed to join pending receipt of such verification report.

(vii) On receipt of verification reports from all issuing authorities/antecedent reports,
the final order of engagement will be issued to regularize the engagement of GDS in
due course.

(viii) During the process of document verification or at any later stage, if it is found
during inquiry that the candidate disguised his or her identity to take any unfair
advantage in the GDS Engagement process, his or her engagement may be terminated
in accordance with the extant rules, after making such inquiry, as may be considered
necessary. The engagement of such candidates will be put on hold during the course
of inquiry, and in case of unsatisfactory findings, the candidature of such candidates
is liable to rejection.

(ix) To sum up, the candidature of the candidates shortlisted in any list will be
cancelled in the following situations, and the Department will issue supplementary
lists against the shortlisted candidates who:




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 13 of 38
        (a) fail to turn up before the designated authority (i.e., the Divisional Head/Unit
        Head) for document verification within the stipulated time for verification of
        documents.
        (b) whose verification of documents remains unsuccessful.
        (c) who fail to complete the joining formalities within the stipulated period,
        (d) Non-submission of the caste certificate in the prescribed format within the
        extended period
        (e) who are not willing to join or have resigned after joining or failed to join due
        to any reason within a period of 30 days from the offer of provisional
        engagement.
        (f) disguised his or her identity in any manner whatsoever to take unfair
        advantage.

(x) Shortlisted candidates in supplementary lists will have to undergo the same process
for verification of documents/pre-engagement formalities as discussed in the
foregoing paragraphs. The process of engagement will be closed, and no further list of
shortlisted candidates will be issued after 31.12.2026. However, the Department
may at its discretion, modify/extend the dates for various activities without assigning
any reasons and its decision in the matter will be final.

(xi) After selection for the GDS post, the SSE documents of selected candidates may
be verified through the API Setu/Digi Locker/Official Website of the Educational
Board by the Department, if the same is available online (API Setu/Digi
Locker/Official Website). All the candidates who will be shortlisted for
engagement are therefore advised to ensure that they have a Digilocker
account and the available relevant documents (marksheet/caste
certificate/PwBD Certificate etc.) are duly fetched in. In the event of any
discrepancy in the marks or other details in the marksheet/document available online
the candidature will be rejected. Hence, candidates are advised to check/correct
details in his/her SSE marksheets available online before applying for the post if the
same is available on Digi Locker/online website of the educational board.

10. IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:

(a) The Department and engaging authorities of each post reserve the right to modify,
cancel the notification or revise the number of posts at any time without assigning
any reason or to stop the engagement process altogether.

(b) Department is not responsible for non-receipt of email/SMS to the applicants due
to any reasons, and the candidates are, therefore, advised to continue to visit the online
engagement portal regularly for the latest updates.

(c) The Department does not make any phone calls to the applicants/shortlisted
candidates. The correspondence, if any, will be made with applicants through the
respective Engaging Authority only. Applicants are advised not to disclose their
personal information/registration number/ mobile numbers/email ids to others and
be guarded against any unscrupulous phone calls.

(d) Applicant can view his/her application submission status on the website by logging
in to the Website using their registration number as username and password.



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 14 of 38
(e) For any Queries, division-wise help desk and phone numbers are provided on the
website. The Department would not entertain any query on any number other than the
help desks. The Department would also not entertain any communication regarding
acceptance of applications in any other form, and any such communication will be
filed.

(f) After the closing date for submission of online applications, a two-day window has
been kept for modification/editing in the same. The purpose of providing this
correction window is to correct the names and other data/marks/choice filling etc.,
except mobile number and email ID. During this two-day window, if the modifications
involve any change in category requiring fee to be paid, such modifications will be
accepted/allowed only if the candidate deposits the fee as per the prescribed
procedure. Upon modification, the previous details in the online application would be
treated as null and void, and merit would be decided based on the details mentioned
in the modified application.

(g) If a candidate initiates modification of the application during the editing window
but does not reach the final stage and submit/complete the application, such
modifications shall be treated as null and void, and the merit will be decided
based on the details furnished in the previously submitted online
application.

(h) Before applying, candidates must to go through the instructions given in this
notification very carefully. The notification is available both in English and Hindi. In
case of any dispute, the English version will prevail.

Important Note: -

        Note 1: The candidates who have been dismissed/removed/compulsory
        retired from Govt. service/Gramin Dak Sevak in the past as a measure of
        penalty under the relevant conduct rule will be barred from applying against
        the vacancies notified. All the applicants will be required to submit an
        undertaking to this effect at the time of submission of their online application
        as per Annexure-IV. If at any stage it is found that the shortlisted GDS had
        concealed the information in this respect, his/her services would be terminated
        in accordance with extant rules and he/she will be liable to be prosecuted in
        accordance with applicable laws.

        Note 2: GDS are holder of a Civil posts but they are outside the regular Civil
        Services of the Union of India and governed by GDS (Conduct and Engagement)
        Rules, 2020 issued vide OM. No. 17-30/2019-GDS dated 14.02.2020 as revised
        from time to time available on the website www.indiapost.gov.in. [Refer to
        Para-3]

        Nots 3: OM. No.17-31/2016-GDS dated 25.06.2018 related to payment of
        TRCA and other allowances to all approved categories of GDS is available on
        www.indiapost.gov.in. [Refer to Para-4]

        Note-4: The selected candidates will have to submit an undertaking to the
        Engaging Authority regarding knowledge of Computer, Cycling and having


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                  Page 15 of 38
        adequate means of livelihood, prescribed formats (refer to Annexure VI, VII
        & VIII respectively) at the time of engagement. [Refer to Para 5.2(2)].

        Note-5: The Department will verify the authenticity of the Secondary Level
        Marksheets of Class X standard, if available on Digi locker, through the API
        SETU PORTAL of the Department of e-Governance, Ministry of Information
        and Technology. Therefore, the candidates at the time of application, as well as
        final selection, will have to submit an understanding/consent, as given in
        Annexure-X, to authorize Department to access their marksheet through the
        said Portal for verification purposes.

        Note: 6: (i) No person holding an elective office will be considered for
                    engagement to the post.

        (ii) The applicant selected as GDS shall not engage in any activity with any
        outside agency, which would be detrimental to the business or interest of the
        Post Office/IPPB.

        (iii) Past experience or service of any kind will not be considered for selection.
        [Refer to Para 5.2(2)]




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                    Page 16 of 38
                                                                        ANNEXURE-I*
Gramin Dak Sevak Vacancy Position for___________Division.


Sl Name of           Name of        Post     TRCA Account office/Record Language PIN
   Division          Office         ID              Office                      Code




Community-wise Consolidation of Posts: -
Community                                                                  No of Posts

OBC (As per state reservation %)

A) PwBD [Low vision (LV) -01%]

B) PwBD [D (Deaf), HH(Hard of hearing -01%],

C) PwBD [One Arm (OA), One Leg (OL), Leprosy Cured, Dwarfism,
Acid Attack Victim, Both Leg (BL)*, Spinal Infirmity/ Spinal
Deformity without any associated neurological/ limb dysfunction, -
01%]

D) PwBD(Specific learning disability/intellectual Disability
E) Multiple disabilities from amongst the disabilities             (01%)
-mentioned at (a) to (d) above, except Deaf and Blindness.
ST(AS per state reservation %)

SC (As per state reservation %)

EWS -10%

UR

Total


*Division-wise vacancy position will be available on the Portal.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 17 of 38
                                                                        ANNEXURE-II


                                 Instructions for applicants
      (For registration and submission of the online application form)


The process of filling online application for the examination consists of two parts:
         (A) One-Time Registration (OTR)
         (B) Filling of Online Application


1. Part-A (One-Time Registration):


        (a) Applicant will be required to make one time Registration on the GDS online
        Engagement                    Portal                 using   the               link
        https://indiapost.gov.in/gdsonlineengagement. The candidate has to
        enter all the details to obtain a unique Registration Number.


        (b) For registration on the Portal, the applicants must have their own active
        email id and mobile number. All the important information, including
        declaration of the result of shortlisting, offer of provisional engagement etc.
        would be sent on the registered mobile number and Email ID only. The
        Department will not communicate with the applicant in any other form.
        However, the information sharing through mobile and Email ID is an additional
        feature. Candidates are advised to visit the portal for regular updates.


        (c)     Once the applicants are registered, the same mobile number and Email
        ID will not be allowed for any further registrations of any other applicant.


        (d)      In case any duplicate Registration is found by altering the
        basic details, the candidature of all such candidates will be removed
        from the selection process.


        (e)     Any applicant who forgot the registration number can retrieve the
        registration number through the option Forgot Registration.


        (f) Before proceeding with One-Time Registration, keep the following
        information/documents ready:


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 18 of 38
            i. Mobile Number (to be verified through OTP)
            ii. Email ID (to be verified through OTP).
            iii. Information about the Board and the Year of Passing the Matriculation
            (10th) Examination.


            (g)        For One-time Registration (OTR), click on the “Candidate
            Login/Register ” button and then for 1st time registration, click on New
            Candidate Registration.


            (h) One-time Registration process requires filling up of following
            information:
                  (i) Contact: -Valid mobile number and email id
                  (ii)Details: - Personal Details
                  (ii) Password Creation


            (i) For filling up the “One-time Registration Form”, please follow the
            following steps:


                  i) Contact: Validate your mobile number and email address: -Your
                  Mobile Number and email id must be functional as it will be verified
                  through One Time Password (OTP). It may be noted that any
                  information which the Department of Posts may like to communicate
                  with you, will be sent on this mobile number/email id only. Your mobile
                  number/email id will also be used for the retrieval of password/
                  Registration Number, if required.


                  ii) Personal Details: A few critical details/fields (eg. Name, Date of
                  birth, Gender, Father’s/Guardian’s name, Mother’s name & Community
                  etc.) are required to be entered in the relevant columns of the
                  Registration Form.


                  Note: The candidate should be very cautious while filling up details in
                  the One-time Registration. Wrong/incorrect information may lead to the
                  cancellation of your candidature.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 19 of 38
                  iii) Password Creation: - Once the details are submitted, the
                  registration number and a random password will be sent to the
                  registered mobile number. However, the candidate can change the
                  password after the first login.


            (j)    On successful completion of the registration process, a registration
            number will be generated. The candidate will note the registration number
            for further login and submission of the application form. Registration
            Number will also be provided to the applicant’s mobile number and Email
            ID.


            (k)     Once registered, an applicant can edit the registration details only
            during the application submission process. During application
            submission, while filling in the Personal Details under the Basic Details
            section, the information provided at the time of registration will be auto-
            populated.


            (l) If the applicant wishes to correct any registration details, he/she may
            click on the link “Click here to update the registration data”. A pop-
            up window will open, allowing the applicant to edit and save the details.


            (m) Mobile number and email ID cannot be modified under any
            circumstances. The candidate should be very cautious while filling up
            details in the One-time Registration. Wrong/incorrect information may lead
            to the cancellation of your candidature.


            (n) Candidates are again advised to ensure that their Name, Father’s name,
            Mother’s name, Date of Birth (DoB) and other details should be filled exactly
            as recorded in the Matriculation (10th class) certificate. Candidature may
            get cancelled if the Candidate Name, Father’s name, Mother’s name, Date of
            Birth (DoB) and other details as mentioned in the application are not
            matched with what is recorded in the matriculation certificate.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                    Page 20 of 38
2. Part-II (Online Application Form)


            (a) For submitting the application candidate has to log in to the online
                system using their Registration Number and the password
                received through SMS.


                Note: Login and application submission are allowed only during the
                dates mentioned for “Submission of Online Applications” in the
                notification.


            (b) Click the “Apply Online” link in the GDS Online Engagement Schedule I
                ‟ Section under the “Active Notification” tab.
            (c) For filling up the “Online Application Form”, please follow the following
                stages :


                (i) Personal Details: - In this section, some of the information will be
                automatically filled from your One-time Registration Data. Candidates
                to fill all other details of the remaining information.
                (ii) Board/Educational Details: - In this section, candidates to select
                the Circle’s name where he/she completed his/her SSE (10th class),
                Board Name, passing year and enter the marks obtained in the SSE.
                (ii) Division selection and Post preference: - Based on the local
                language studied by the candidate in their SSE, vacancies available in the
                respective Circles and their Divisions will be available for the candidate
                as detailed in para-4 below.
                (iv) Upload photo and Signature: - In this section candidate has to
                upload his/her recent photo and signature as detailed in para-5 below.
                (v) Preview before Final submission: - On filling in details in all
                previous sections, the candidate can check a preview of his/her
                application form. Before final submission, he/she can edit the filled
                details.
                (vi) Fee payment: -Before final submission of online application, the
                system will be prompt for fee payment, if applicable, else the application
                will be submitted successfully. The detail for fee payment is given in
                para-3 below.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                    Page 21 of 38
3. PAYMENT OF FEE


        (a) Fee: A fee of Rs.1oo (Rupees One Hundred only) is to be paid by the
        applicants for all posts notified in the choice of Division.


        (b) However, payment of fee is exempted for all female applicants, SC /ST
        applicants, PwBD and Transwomen applicants.


        (c) Applicants, except the exempted category of applicants, may make payment
        of the fee through any of the online available modes. All recognised
        Credit/Debit cards and Net Banking/UPI facility can be used for this purpose.
        Charges applicable for usage of Debit/credit cards and net banking, as per the
        rules from time to time, will be levied.


        (d) Applicants are advised to note their registration number at a secure place
        for making the payment of fee.


        (e) Fee once paid will not be refunded. Hence, the candidate is advised
        to ensure his eligibility for applying to a particular Division before making the
        fee payment.


        (f) Applicants who are exempted from payment of fee, may submit their
        application without making any payment.


        (g) Applicants who are eligible for fee payment and initiate the fee payment will
        make the payment within 10 minutes of the window. Applicants are advised not
        to close or refresh the window till the payment process is completed.


        (h) Online fee can be paid by candidates up to 17:00 hours of the last date fixed
        for online application submission and fee payment.             Candidates who are
        required to pay the application fee must complete the fee payment within the
        prescribed closing date and time. The application submission process,
        including successful fee payment, shall be completed on or before the closing
        time.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 22 of 38
        (i) If the closing time is 17:00 hours, the application along with fee payment,
        must be completed by 17:00 hours exactly. Applications with pending or
        incomplete fee payment after the closing time shall be rejected, and no
        extension or additional time shall be granted under any circumstances. If any
        payment made after the closing date and time, such payment will not be refund.


4. SELECTION OF DIVISION AND EXERCISING PREFERENCES:


        An applicant can only apply one or more vacant posts of GDS in only in one of
the selected Divisions. On selecting the Division, a list of all eligible posts (based
on the community, Age, PwD Status, and Local Languages studied) will be displayed,
against which the applicant has to give preferences. Applicant will not be considered
for a post for which he/she has not given/indicated his/her preference(s). However, if
shortlisted, only one post only will be offered for engagement, and his/her rights for
all other posts will be forfeited.


Example: If an applicant opts for five posts in a Division with preference post1, post2,
post3, post4, post5 etc. and selected as meritorious in more than one post, the first
post in the order of preference, against which he/she is found most suitable, will be
offered and the candidature for all the remaining posts will be forfeited.


Note: If an office has more than one post with the same post name, each post is
uniquely identified by its Post ID. Candidates who wish to apply for such posts must
give their preference for all the relevant Post IDs.


5. UPLOADING OF PHOTOGRAPHS AND SIGNATURE: -


        The applicant is required to upload only his recent photograph and signature at
the time of submitting the online application in the formats and sizes as prescribed as
under: -


Recent Photograph:

       File format: JPG/JPEG only
       File size: 30 KB to 100 KB
       Image dimensions: Recommended 320 × 400 pixels



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                   Page 23 of 38
       Aspect Ratio: 4:5 (Width: Height)
       DPI: 72 to 150
       Background: Plain white or light-coloured
       Face should occupy 70–80% of the image with no shadows or red-eye
       Cropping Tip: Use editing tools to crop to a 4:5 ratio (e.g., 320×400 or 240×300
        px). Ensure the face is centred and clearly visible.
       Avoid uploading scanned photos or selfies.
       Ensure the photo is clear, well-lit, and in focus.


Signature:


    Upload your scanned signature written on white paper with a black or blue pen:
       File format: JPG/JPEG only
       File size: 20 KB to 100 KB
       Image dimensions: Recommended 300 × 120 pixels
       Aspect Ratio: 5:2 (Width : Height)
       DPI: 72 to 150
       Background: Plain white with clear signature
       Cropping Tip: Crop image to a 5:2 ratio (e.g., 300×120 px). Ensure the signature
        fits completely in the frame.
       Do not upload typed or digital text as your signature
       Ensure the signature is clear, not shaky, not pixelatedon and white background
        only
       Signature should occupy 70–80% of the image
        No shadows, borders, or extra marks


Note : Applications with blurred photographs or with blurred/miniature
signatures will be rejected.


After uploading the photograph and signature, the candidate must verify the
preview. It is solely the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that the
uploaded photograph and signature are correctly uploaded, as per the
prescribed specifications, and are clearly visible in the preview.


If the preview of the uploaded photograph or signature is not clear or not visible,
the candidate must upload revised images as per the prescribed


GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                  Page 24 of 38
specifications before final submission. No request for correction or
replacement shall be entertained after final submission.


6.     WINDOW FOR APPLICATION FORM CORRECTION


(a)      After the closing date for submission of online applications, a two-day
window has been kept for modification/editing the same. During this two-
day window, the candidate may modify/edit registration/applications which were
successfully submitted along with applicable fee payment, however, if the
modifications involve any change in category requiring fee to be paid, such
modifications will be applicable only if the candidate deposits the fee as per the
prescribed procedure. Upon modification, the previous online application would be
treated as null and void, and merit would be decided based on the modified
application.


(b)     Before submission of the modified application, applicants must check that they
have filled correct details in each field of the form. After the expiry of 'Edit/Correction’
window, no change/ correction/ modification will be allowed in the application under
any circumstances. No request in this regard in any form like by post, fax, email, by
hand, etc., shall be entertained by the Department.

(c) During the edit/resubmission window, once a candidate resubmits the application,
no further corrections shall be allowed thereafter. No request for correction in any
form—such as by post, fax, email, by hand, or any other mode—shall be entertained by
the Department.

(d) If a candidate initiates modification of the application during the editing window
but does not complete and finally submit the modified application, including payment
(wherever applicable), within the prescribed timeline, such modifications shall be
treated as null and void, and the merit shall be decided based on the details
furnished in the previously submitted online application.


(e) During the initial application submission, if a candidate has paid the fee and,
during resubmission, the application becomes fee-exempt based on the details
furnished in the application, the fee already paid shall not be refunded.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 25 of 38
Note: -
        (1) Applicants are advised in their own interest to submit the online application
        much before the closing date and time and not to wait till the last date to avoid
        the possibility of disconnection/ inability or failure to login to the website on
        account of heavy load on the website during the closing days.


        (2) The Department will not be responsible for the applicants not being able to
        submit their applications within the last date and time on account of the
        aforesaid reasons or for any other reason beyond the control of the Department.


        (3) Before submission of the online application, applicants must check through
        the Preview/ Print option and must ensure that they have filled in the correct
        details in each field of the form. They should also check that the photograph
        and signature meet all the given requirements.


        (4) The cut-off time for submission of online applications shall be up to 17:00
        hours on the last date fixed for submission of the online application
        form.


        (5) Note: It is the sole responsibility of the candidate to ensure that the online
        application is fully completed and finally submitted, including successful fee
        payment, if applicable, within the date and time as prescribed in notification.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                    Page 26 of 38
                                                                              Annexure-III
                 LIST OF LOCAL LANGUAGES FOR GDS ENGAGEMENT
                                      Name of the State/UT
 S.                                                              Local Language as prescribed by
         Name of the Circle             covered under the
 No.                                                                   Department of Posts
                                            Postal Circle
                                        Andhra Pradesh and
   1        Andhra Pradesh                                                   Telugu
                                                Yanam
                                       Assam (excluding three
                                       districts of Barak Valley
                                                                            Assamese
                                      and Bodoland Territorial
                                            Council Areas)
  2               Assam                Three District of Barak
                                                                             Bengali
                                                 Valley
                                        Bodo Land Territorial
                                                                              Bodo
                                            Council Areas
  3              Bihar                         Bihar                          Hindi
  4           Chhattisgarh                  Chhattisgarh                      Hindi
  5              Delhi                      NCT of Delhi                      Hindi
                                              Gujarat
  6              Gujarat               Dadra Nagar Haveli &                  Gujarati
                                         Daman and Diu
  7             Haryana                        Haryana                        Hindi

  8        Himachal Pradesh              Himachal Pradesh                     Hindi

  9      Jammu and Kashmir                J & K and Ladakh                Urdu or Hindi

  10           Jharkhand                    Jharkhand                         Hindi
  11           Karnataka                    Karnataka                        Kannada
                                      Kerala, Lakshadweep &
  12              Kerala                                                    Malayalam
                                               Mahe
  13        Madhya Pradesh               Madhya Pradesh                       Hindi
                                           Maharashtra                       Marathi
  14          Maharashtra
                                                  Goa                  Konkani or Marathi*
                                                              Both Hindi or English, and any of the
                                         Arunachal Pradesh
                                                              23 dialects (as per the area specified)*
                                               Manipur                 Manipuri or English
                                                                     Both, Hindi or English,
                                                                             and Garo
                                                                (For the areas covered under Sixth
                                                               Schedule of the Constitution of India
  15           North East
                                                               in East Garo Hills, North Garo Hills,
                                              Meghalaya       South Garo Hills, West Garo Hills and
                                                                      South West Garo Hills)
                                                                                Or

                                                                      Both, Hindi or English
                                                                            and Khasi



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                         Page 27 of 38
                                                                 (For the areas covered under Sixth
                                                                Schedule of the Constitution of India
                                                               in East Khasi Hills, West Jaintia Hills,
                                                                East Jaintia Hills, South West Khasi
                                                                Hills, West Khasi Hills. Eastern West
                                                                       Khasi Hills and Ri Bhoi)
                                                                                 Or

                                                                          Hindi or English

                                                               (For the rest of the areas in Meghalaya
                                                               which is not under the Sixth Schedule
                                                                     of the Constitution of India)
                                               Mizoram                            Mizo
                                                               Hindi or English and knowledge of any
                                                                          of the 19 tribal local
                                                                  languages/dialects- Angami, Ao,
                                                                 Chakhesang, Chang, Garo, Kachari,
                                              Nagaland
                                                                Khiamniungan, Konyak, Kuki, Lotha,
                                                                   Mikir, Phom, Pochury, Rengma,
                                                                 Sangtam, Sumi, Tikhir, Yimkhiung,
                                                                                 Zellang
                                               Tripura                 Bengali or Kak Barak
  16             Odisha                         Odisha                          Odia
                                                Punjab                        Punjabi
  17             Punjab
                                             Chandigarh                   Hindi or English
  18            Rajasthan                     Rajasthan                        Hindi
                                             Tamil Nadu                        Tamil
               Tamil Nadu
  19                                   Puducherry (Excluding
                                                                               Tamil
                                          Mahe & Yanam)
  20          Telangana                     Telangana                          Telugu
  21         Uttar Pradesh                Uttar Pradesh                         Hindi
  22         Uttarakhand                   Uttarakhand                          Hindi
                                           West Bengal                         Bengali
                                        Andaman & Nicobar
                                                                          Hindi or English
                                             Islands
                                                                English and any one of the following
                                                                           12 languages —
                                                                  Nepali, Bhutia, Lepcha, Limbu,
                                                Sikkim             Newari, Rai, Gurung, Mangar,
  23          West Bengal
                                                               Sherpa, Tamang, Sunuwar or Bhujel —
                                                                         studied at the 10th
                                                                          standard level. *
                                  Darjeeling Division                     Bengali or Nepali
                               Post offices under Gorkha
                               Territorial Administration             Nepali
                                         (GTA)
   *Refer para 5.2 (1) (c) of the notification for special provision for engagement
of GDS in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Nagaland and Sikkim.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                          Page 28 of 38
                                                                              Annexure-IV

Undertaking regarding 'removed/dismissed/compulsory retired' as Govt.
                     Servant/Gramin Dak Sevak


I______________son/daughter/wife of____________hereby undertake to
declare that, I have not been dismissed/removed/compulsory retired from Govt
service/Gramin Dak Sevak in the past as a measure of penalty under the relevant
conduct rule. If at any stage, it is found that I had concealed the information
in this respect, my services would be liable to be terminated in accordance
with extant rules and I will also be liable to be prosecuted in accordance
with applicable laws.




Place: -
                                                              Signature___________

Date: -                                                      Name of applicant______

                                                             Address______________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                       Page 29 of 38
                                                                  ANNEXURE-V
                          FORMAT FOR SC/ST CERTIFICATE $


  The form of certificate to be produced by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
     candidates applying for appointment to posts under Government of India
This                is          to            certify       that
Shri/Shrimati/Kumari*___________________son/daughter           of
____________________________village/town*_____________________
_______ of District/Division*_________________of the State/Union
Territory*____________________________              belongs   to
the____________caste/Tribes* which is recognized as a Scheduled
Castes/Scheduled Tribes under:-
@The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950
@The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950
@The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Union Territories Order, 1951
@The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Union Territories Order, 1951
[As amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification)
order, 1956, the Bombay Reorganization Act, 1960 & the Punjab Reorganization Act,
1966, the State of Himachal Pradesh Act 1970, the North-Eastern Area
(Reorganization) Act, 1971; the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Order
(Amendment) Act, 1976, the State of Mizoram Act, 1986, the State of Arunachal
Pradesh Act, 1986 and the Goa, Daman and Diu (Reorganisation) Act, 1987.]
@The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Castes Order, 1956
@The Constitution (Andaman and Nicobar Islands) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1959as
amended by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes order (Amendment Act),
1976.
@The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Castes order 1962.
@ @The Constitution (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) Scheduled Tribes Order 1962.
@The Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes Order 1964
@The Constitution (Uttar Pradesh) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1967
@ @The Constitution (Goa, Daman & Diu) Scheduled Castes Order, 1968
@The Constitution (Goa, Daman & Diu) Scheduled Tribes Order 1968
@The Constitution (Nagaland) Scheduled Tribes Order, 1970
@The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Castes Order 1978
@The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes Order 1978
@The Constitution (Jammu & Kashmir) Scheduled Tribes Order 1989
@The Constitution (SC) orders (Amendment) Act, 1990
@The Constitution (ST) orders (Amendment) Ordinance 1991
@The Constitution (ST) orders (Second Amendment) Act, 1991
@The Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 2002
@The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Act, 2002
@The Constitution (Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Orders (Amendment)
Act, 2002
@The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Orders (Second Amendment) Act, 2002




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026              Page 30 of 38
%2. Applicable in the case of Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes persons who
have migrated from one State/Union Territory Administration to another.
        This certificate is issued on the basis of the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes
certificate issued to Shri/Shrimati*_________________Father/Mother of
Shri/Srimati/Kumari*___________________of
village/town*_____________in               District/Division*_____________of          the
State/Union Territory*_________________ who belong to the Caste/Tribe*
which is recognized as a Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe in the State/Union
Territory*                   of______________                     issued               by
the_______________date_____________


%3.       Shri/Shrimati/Kumari*___________and/or* his/her family ordinarily
reside(s) in village/town*____________of_______________District/Division*
of the State/Union Territory* of ________________
                                                                                     Signature
                                                             **Designation________________
                                                                           (with seal of office)
                                                                        State/Union Territory
Place:
Date:
*Please delete the words which are not applicable
@Please quote specific presidential order
% Delete the paragraph which is not applicable.
NOTE: The term ordinarily reside(s) used here will have the same meaning as in
section 20 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950.
** List of authorities empowered to issue Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe
Certificates:
(i) District  Magistrate/Additional  District    Magistrate/Collector/   Deputy
Commissioner/Additional Deputy Commissioner/ Dy. Collector Ist Class Stipendiary
Magistrate/+Sub-Divisional        Magistrate/Taluka         Magistrate/Executive
Magistrate/Extra Assistant Commissioner. + (not below of the rank of 1 Class
Stipendiary Magistrate).
(ii) Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/Presidency
Magistrate.
(iii) Revenue Officers not below the rank of Tehsildar.
(iv) Sub-Divisional Officers of the area where the candidate and/or his family
normally resides.
(v) Administrator/ Secretary to Administrator/ Development Officer (Lakshadweep).
         $ Format as    revised time to time by DOPT




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                         Page 31 of 38
                                                                     ANNEXURE-V


(FORMAT OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY OTHER BACKWARD
CLASSES APPLYING FOR APPOINTMENT TO POSTS UNDER THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA)

This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari_____________son/daughter
of___________of                               village/town_______________in
district/division___________________in                 the         State/Union
Territory_______________belongs to the____________Community which is
recognized as a backward class under the Government of India, Ministry of Social
Justice       and    Empowerment’s       resolution      No._______________
dated__________________*

Shri/Smt/Kumari___________________________and/or                 his/her    family
ordinarily    reside(s)   in    the_________________District/Division           of
the_______________ State/Union Territory. This is also to certify that he/she does
not belong to the persons/sections (Creamy Layer) mentioned in Column 3 of the
Scheduled to the Government of India, Department of Personnel & Training O.M. No.
36012/22/93-Estt (SCT) dated 8.9.1993. Ο.Μ. No. 36033/3/2004-Estt. (Res) dated
9th March, 2004, O.M. No.36033/3/2004-Estt. (Res) dated 14th October, 2008 and
O.M. No. 36033/1/2013-Estt. (Res) dated 27th May, 2013**.

Dated:


                                                             Signature_____________
                                                             Designation___________


                                                  Seal
_____________________________________________________


*The authority issuing the certificate may have to mention the details of Resolution of
Government of India, in which the caste of the candidate's is mentioned as OBC.
**- As amended from time to time.
$- List of Authorities empowered to issue Other Backward Classes certificate will be
the same as those empowered to issue Scheduled caste/ Scheduled Tribe Certificates.
Note: The term "Ordinarily" used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of
the Representation of the People Act, 1950.




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                 Page 32 of 38
                                                                             ANNEXURE-V
                                Government of_________________
                      (Name & Address of the authority issuing the certificate)


            INCOME & ASSET CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY
                        ECONOMICALLY WEAKER SECTIONS
Certificate No.                                                               Date
                              VALID FOR THE YEAR_____________


This is to certify that Shri/Smt./Kumari____________ son/daughter/wife
of_____________permanent                         resident            of_____________
Village/Street_________PostOffice___________District________in                       the
state/Union Territory___________Pin Code________________ whose
photograph is attested below belongs to Economically Weaker Sections, since the gross
annual income of his/her 'family'* is below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupees Eight Lakh only) for
the financial year______________. His/her family does not own or possess any of
the following assets **:
        i. 5 acres of agricultural land and above;
        ii. Residential flat of 1000 sq. ft. and above;
        iii. Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified municipalities;
        iv. Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in areas other than the notified
        municipalities.

2.     Shri/Smt/Kumari___________ belongs to the___________caste which is
not recognized as a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes
(Central List).

                                                        Signature with seal of Office________
                                                                   Name_______________
Passport size attested photograph of the applicant
Designation___________



        Passport size attested


__________________________________________________________
*Note 1: Income covered all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession etc.
2: The term 'Family" for this purpose include the person, who seeks benefit of
reservation, his/her parents and siblings below the age of 18 years as also his/her
spouse and children below the age of 18 years.
3: The property held by a "Family" in different locations or different places/cities have
been clubbed while applying the land or property holding test to determine EWS
status.



GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                        Page 33 of 38
                                                                          ANNEXURE-VI
                                         UNDERTAKING


I_________________son/daughter/wife of______________hereby undertake
to declare that I am computer literate and able to use smart phone/laptop/computer
device from the first day of engagement.


Place: -


Date: -




                                                                    Signature___________
                                                             Name of applicant___________
                                                                    Address____________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 34 of 38
                                                                         ANNEXURE-VII




                                         DECLARATION


I_______________son/daughter/wife of__________hereby declare that, I am
able ride bicycle and/or drive two-wheeler scooter/bike for performing my duty as a
GDS BPM/ABPM/Dak Sevak.




Place: -


Date: -




                                                                    Signature___________
                                                             Name of applicant___________
                                                                    Address____________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 35 of 38
                                                                        ANNEXURE-VIII


                                         UNDERTAKING


I______________son/daughter/wife of____________hereby undertake to
declare that, I will have other sources of income besides the TRCA and allowances to
be paid by the Government to support livelihood for myself and my family, in the event
of my engagement to the post of Gramin Dak Sevak BPM/ABPM/Dak Sevak.


Place: -


Date: -




                                                                    Signature___________
                                                             Name of applicant___________
                                                                    Address____________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                     Page 36 of 38
                                                                     ANNEXURE-IX


                                           Undertaking


I______________son/daughter/wife of____________hereby undertake to
declare that, the details of furnished by me (ie. Age/Address/Educational
qualifications/Computer knowledge/EWS/PwD/Caste etc.) on the basis of which I am
applying for the posts of GDSBPM/ABPM/Dak Sevak are true to the best of my
knowledge and belief I also undertake that, in case, any detail submitted by me is found
to be false at any stage of engagement process/during engagement, my candidature
shall be liable to be rejected against all the vacancies, applied for, or after my
engagement, I shall be terminated under GDS (Conduct and Engagement) Rules I also
understood that I shall be liable for criminal/legal action for producing any of false
details/documents etc


Place :


Date :


                                                               Signature___________
                                                             Name of applicant_______
                                                             Address______________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                  Page 37 of 38
                                                                           ANNEXURE-X


Consent and declaration for verification of mark sheet through API Setu



I…………………………………. hereby give my consent for verification of my mark sheet of
Secondary Level Examination of Class X standard through API Setu.


Place: ______________
Date: ______________

                                                             Signature :_______________
                                                       Name of the applicant: ____________
                                                          Address___________________




GDS Online Engagement Notification, Schedule-II, July-2026                      Page 38 of 38
