JAM 2027


Information
Brochure


Organizing Institute: IIT Kharagpur
                                                            JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Information Brochure
Copyright © 2027 - JAM 2027, Organizing Institute, IIT Kharagpur.


The information contained in this document is for the public, written solely for the purpose
of JAM 2027 examination.       All rights are reserved with the     Organizing Institute, IIT
Kharagpur. Any addition, deletion and modification of the document is not permitted in any
form.




                                                                               Page | 2
                                                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




HIGHLIGHTS OF JAM 2027


 •   IIT Kharagpur is the Organizing Institute for JAM 2027.

 •   JAM 2027 is a Computer Based Test (CBT) conducted for seven Test Papers
     at the undergraduate level.

 •   JAM 2027 will be held on 14 𝑡ℎ February, 2027 in two sessions.

 •   JAM 2027 is open to all nationals (Indian/Foreign) and there is no age
     restriction.

 •   Test Papers will comprise (i) Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ), (ii)
     Multiple Select Questions (MSQ) and (iii) Numerical Answer Type (NAT)
     Questions.

 •   Candidates may appear in ONE or TWO Test Paper(s).

 •   JAM 2027 scores will be used for admission in IITs and other prestigious
     institutes for the academic year 2027-28.

 •   JAM Scores are used for admission to programs such as M.Sc., M.Sc.
     (Tech), MS (Research), M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual Degree, Joint M.Sc.- Ph.D., M.Sc.
     - Ph.D. Dual Degree and Integrated Ph.D. in various institutes.

 •   JAM 2027 Examination will be conducted in around 114 Cities across India.




                                                                          Page | 3
                                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




CONTENTS


1   Introduction                                                                                                10
    1.1   Academic Programs                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  11
          1.1.1      Admitting Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             12
          1.1.2      Result Sharing Institutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            12


2   JAM 2027                                                                                                    14
    2.1   JAM 2027 Examination                    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 14
    2.2   Schedule of JAM 2027                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  15
    2.3   Application Fees              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   15
    2.4   Eligibility Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            16
    2.5   Pattern of Questions               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  17
    2.6   Structure of Question Paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 18
    2.7   Services of Scribe for eligible PwD Candidates ......................................... 19
          2.7.1      Scribes arranged by Examination Body ................................... 20
    2.8   Compensatory Time .................................................................................. 21


3 Online Application Procedure                                                                                  23
    3.1   JOAPS Registration .................................................................................... 23
    3.2   Choice of Examination Cities ...................................................................... 24
    3.3   Filling the Online Application Form ......................................................... 25




                                                                                                   Page | 4
                                                                            JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



   3.4     Photograph Requirements ................................................................... 27
   3.5     Signature Requirements ...................................................................... 29
   3.6     Certificate for OBC-NCL/EWS/SC/ST/PwD ........................................... 31
   3.7     Application Fee Payment Procedure .................................................... 32
   3.8     Scrutiny of Applications ........................................................................ 33
   3.9     Admit Card .............................................................................................. 34


4 Admission Procedure                                                                                                   35
   4.1     Admission Procedure ........................................................................... 35
         4.1.1     Academic Programs .................................................................... 35
         4.1.2     Eligibility Requirements (ERs) and Minimum Educational
                   Qualifications (MEQs) ................................................................... 36
         4.1.3     Application for Admission.............................................................. 36
         4.1.4     Reservations ..................................................................................... 37
         4.1.5     Provisional Admission ................................................................... 37
         4.1.6     Admission Fee ....................................................................................38


5 Legal and Privacy Policy                                                                                              39
   5.1     Legal Policy ..................................................................................................39
   5.2     Privacy Policy ...............................................................................................39


Annexures


A Annexure I
   JAM 2027 Syllabus                                                                                                    43

B Annexure II

   MEQs and Seat Matrix∗                                                                                                61




                                                                                                          Page | 5
                                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



C   Annexure III
    Code of Conduct                                                       77


D Annexure IV
    List of Examination Cities                                            80


E   Annexure V
    Information for Certificates                                          82


F   Annexure VI
    Pro Forma: OBC-NCL Certificate                                        84


G Annexure VII
    Pro Forma: EWS Certificate                                            86


     Appendices


H APPENDIX I
    PwD: Relevant Certificates                                            90


I   APPENDIX II
    PwD: Scribe Declaration                                               93




                                                               Page | 6
                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                    Page | 7
                                                 JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



ACRONYMS

 AIR       All India Rank. (p. 5)

 CBT       Computer Based Test. (p. 5, 10)

 CCMN      Centralized Counselling for M.Sc./M.Sc. (Tech) Admission. (p. 3)

 CFTI      Centrally Funded Technical Institutes. (p. 3)

 DoB       Date of Birth. (p. 7, 15, 16)

 ERs       Eligibility Requirements. (p. 3, 5)

 EWS       Economically Weaker Sections. (p. 15)

 IISc      Indian Institute of Science. (p. 3)

 IISER     Indian Institute of Science Education and Research. (p. 3)

 IIT       Indian Institutes of Technology. (p. 1)
 JAM       Joint Admission test for Masters. (p. 2)
 JOAPS     JAM Online Application Processing System. (p. 14)
 MEQs      Minimum Educational Qualifications. (p. 3, 5)
 NIT       National Institute of Technology. (p. 3)
 OBC-NCL   Other Backward Classes (Non-Creamy Layer). (p. 15)
 PwD       Person with benchmark Disability. (p. i, 6, 10–12, 15, 23)
 SC        Scheduled Castes. (p. 15)
 ST        Scheduled Tribes. (p. 15)
 UDID      Unique Disability Identification. (p. 16, 30)




                                                                        Page | 8
                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                        Page | 9
                                                        JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                    1
INTRODUCTION
The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are institutions of national importance
established through an Act of Parliament in 1956 for fostering excellence in higher
education. IITs are internationally acclaimed institutes renowned for their high- quality
education in engineering, science, humanities, social science, management,               and
research in frontier areas. The aim of these institutes is to build a strong foundation
of knowledge, pursue excellence and enhance creativity in an intellectually stimulating
environment. The current pace of advancement of technology needs a coherent back-
up of basic science education and research. The vibrant academic ambiance and research
infrastructure at IITs motivate students to pursue Research and Development careers in
frontier areas of basic sciences, social sciences,   as well as interdisciplinary areas of
science and technology. Further, IITs are well-equipped with modern laboratories, eﬀicient
computer networks and state-of-the-art libraries. The teaching process is structured to
promote close and continuous interface between the faculty and the students.




                                                                             Page | 10
                                                              JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



   Joint Admission test for Masters (JAM) has been established as a benchmark
entrance examination for the science education in the country for last two decades.




   The objective of JAM is to provide:

       •    Admissions to various postgraduate programs

       •    Science as a career option for the students across the country

       •    High quality education in the respective disciplines, comparable to the
            best in the world via an engaging curriculum

       •    Opportunities to develop academic talent leading to a challenging and
            rewarding professional life

       •    Interdisciplinary curricula enabling the students with the ability to utilize
            scientific knowledge for practical applications




1.1        Academic Programs

IITs offer admission to different postgraduate programs through JAM examination leading
to Master’s degree or Master - Ph.D. dual degree in various disciplines of Science. JAM
Score is used for admission to various postgraduate programs such as (i) M.Sc., (ii) M.Sc.
(Tech.), (iii) M.S. (Research), (iv) M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree, (v) Joint M.Sc. - Ph.D.,
(vi) M.Sc. - Ph.D. Dual Degree, and (vii) Integrated Ph.D. in multiple disciplines by premier
institutes across the country.


   Note




                                                                                  Page | 11
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



   Admissions to various institutes using JAM 2027 score is divided into two categories:


1.1.1 Admitting Institutes

There are around 3000 seats in postgraduate programs at 23 IITs for the academic year
2027-28. JAM Scores will be used to admit the candidates subject to meeting the Eligibility
Requirements (ERs), Minimum Educational Qualifications (MEQs) and any other
necessary requirements, without any additional interview or written test. The details of
Seat matrix and MEQs of various programs of the participating IITs are provided in
Annexure II.



  Note




1.1.2 Result Sharing Institutes

JAM score will be used for admission to over 2000 seats for postgraduate programs at
IISc, CFTIs, NITs, DIAT, IIEST Shibpur, IISER Pune, IISER Bhopal, IIPE, JNCASR, SLIET
etc. No additional written tests or interviews for admission are required for candidates who
have qualified JAM and have met the eligibility requirements through Centralized
Counselling for M.Sc./M.Sc. (Tech) Admission (CCMN).
Please visit https://ccmn.admissions.nic.in for more details.




                                                                              Page | 12
       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

Note




                           Page | 13
                                                             JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                        2
JAM 2027

2.1    JAM 2027 Examination

JAM 2027 Examination will be conducted as a Computer Based Test (CBT) in seven Test
Papers namely, Biotechnology (BT), Chemistry (CY), Economics (EN), Geology (GG),
Mathematics (MA), Mathematical Statistics (MS) and Physics (PH). The syllabi are
given in Annexure I.

The salient features of JAM 2027 examination are:


   ▪   It is open to all nationals (Indian/Foreign) seeking admission to various
       postgraduate programs for the academic year 2027-28.

   ▪   It will be conducted on 14th February, 2027 in two sessions.

   ▪   There is no age restriction.
   ▪   In order to apply for admission into a desired program, a candidate is required to
       qualify in the relevant Test Paper, satisfy the ERs and MEQs of the respective
       academic program.
   ▪   Admission shall be given as per All India Rank (AIR) in each Test Paper of JAM
       2027, reservation policy of Government of India, and the availability of seats.

   ▪   Foreign nationals are required to satisfy the rules and regulations of the admitting
       institute pertaining to foreign students. For further details, they are advised to contact
       the concerned admitting institute.




                                                                                  Page | 14
                                                        JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


2.2    Schedule of JAM 2027

JAM 2027 examination will be held on February 14, 2027 (Sunday) in two sessions. The
duration of the examination is 3 hours. The examination schedule is given in Table 2.1.


                              Table 2.1: Schedule of JAM 2027


          Date             Session              Time            Test Paper Code

                        Forenoon (FN)    9:30 am to 12:30 pm       CY, GG and MA
      Feb 14, 2027
        (Sunday)       Afternoon (AN)     2:30 pm to 5:30 pm    BT, EN, MS and PH



   A candidate can appear in either one or two Test Paper(s). A candidate can appear
in two Test Papers only if they are not scheduled in the same session.
The PwD candidates are eligible for one-hour compensatory time for each paper (i.e. for
these candidates the end time will be 13:30 IST for forenoon session and 18:30 IST for
afternoon session). They must, however, fill in the requisite forms (refer Appendix I/II)
during registration for availing the compensatory time and/or availing the services of a
scribe (amanuensis).



2.3    Application Fees

The details of the application fee are given in Table 2.2. The application fees are non-
refundable under any circumstances.


                       Table 2.2: Application Fee Structure of JAM 2027


           CATEGORY                  ONE TEST PAPER       TWO TEST PAPERS


           Female/SC/ST/PwD          ₹ 1000               ₹ 1350


           All Others                ₹ 2000               ₹ 2700




                                                                            Page | 15
                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Candidates who have entered the CATEGORY or GENDER or EXAMINATION CITY or
DoB incorrectly will be allowed to change with an additional fee of ₹300. Candidates can
add an ADDITIONAL TEST PAPER or can CHANGE THE TEST PAPER(S) in the previously
submitted application form available at https://jam.iitkgp.ac.in with an additional fee of
₹300 before November 10, 2026.


2.4 Eligibility Criteria

Candidates who have either completed their undergraduate degree or will be appearing in the
final examination of their qualifying degree in 2027 are eligible to appear in JAM 2027. By
qualifying in JAM 2027, candidates can apply for admission subject to the following conditions:



  •   The undergraduate program should have been COMPLETED before the date of
      admission of the respective Admitting Institute.
  •   Proof of having passed the qualifying degree with required eligibility, as specified by
      the Admitting Institute, should be submitted within the timeline provided by the
      respective Admitting Institute.




                                                                                 Page | 16
                                                               JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



2.5     Pattern of Questions

The examination will be conducted as a Computer Based Test (CBT) where the questions
appear in a random sequence on a computer screen. There will be 60 questions carrying a
total of 100 marks. The entire question paper will be divided into three sections namely, A, B
and C. All sections are compulsory.

Questions in each section will be of the following types:




      Section A: Multiple Choice Question (MCQ)

        •   Only one option is correct out of the four given choices.

        •   Section – A has negative marking.

        •   In case of wrong answer, one-third of a mark will be deducted for 1-mark
            Question and two-third of a mark will be deducted for 2 marks Question.


      Section B: Multiple Select Question (MSQ)

        •   There may be one or more than one correct choice(s), but not all four
            choices.
        •   No negative or partial marking.


      Section C: Numerical Answer Type (NAT)

        •   The answer is a real number which needs to be entered by the candidate using
            the virtual keyboard available on the computer screen.

        •   No choices are shown for this type of questions.
        •   There is no negative marking.




                                                                                   Page | 17
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


2.6    Structure of Question Paper

The structure of the question paper is given in Table 2.3.



                             Table 2.3: Structure of Question Paper


                     Section – A: 30 MCQs


                     Question No. Mark(s)       Number       Total Marks


                         Q.1 - Q.10      1        10             10


                      Q.11 - Q.30        2        20             40


                     Section – A has negative marking for wrong
                     answer.
                     𝟏
                          of a mark is deducted for 1 mark question.
                     𝟑

                     𝟐
                           of a mark is deducted for 2 marks question.
                     𝟑



                     Section – B: 10 MSQs


                     Question No. Marks         Number       Total Marks


                      Q.31 - Q.40        2        10             20


                     Section – B has no negative or partial marking.


                     Section – C: 20 NAT Questions


                     Question No. Mark(s)       Number       Total Marks


                      Q.41 - Q.50        1        10             10


                      Q.51 - Q.60        2        10             20


                     Section – C has no negative marking.




                                                                             Page | 18
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



 • In all sections, un-attempted questions will yield zero mark.

 • The candidates are required to select the answer(s) for MCQ and MSQ type
    questions using the mouse.
 • The answer for NAT questions must be entered using a mouse on a virtual
    numeric keypad. The keyboard of the computer will be disabled.
 • There is a provision for using a virtual calculator provided on the computer screen.
    Candidates are not allowed to bring their own calculators.
 • A scribble pad will be provided for rough work. Candidates have to write their
    name and registration number before using it. The scribble pad has to be returned
    at the end of the examination.
 • The examination will end automatically after the stipulated time.

 • Candidates are required to adhere to the code of conduct specified in Annexure III.

 • Candidates will also be able to take a mock examination through a Mock Test link that
    will be made available on the JAM 2027 website.

 • Previous years question papers are available on JAM 2027 website.




2.7    Services of Scribe for eligible PwD Candidates

In accordance with the oﬀice memorandum issued by the Ministry of Social Justice and
Empowerment, PwD candidates who are visually impaired OR Cerebral Palsy OR have
disability in the upper limbs OR have lost fingers/hands thereby preventing them from
properly taking the CBT may avail the services of a scribe (amanuensis). The option to
utilize the services of a Scribe has to be exercised by the candidates during the application
stage. If they choose to utilize the services of a Scribe, the scribe will be provided by the
Examination Body. If, and only if, the examination body is unable to provide the scribe (in
exceptional/rare cases) at any given center, the candidate will be notified by
email/SMS/phone to bring their own scribe.




                                                                              Page | 19
                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




   Note




2.6.1 Scribes arranged by Examination Body


  •   Scribes will be arranged for those PwD candidates who have requested to be
      provided with a scribe at the time of application.
  •   The qualification of the scribe should be a minimum of “two academic years below”
      and a maximum of “three academic years below” the minimum qualification of the
      candidate appearing for JAM 2027 (as per F.No. P-13013/75/          2023-Policy-DD-III
      dated August 01, 2025).

  •   The minimum qualification of the scribe should be of 12 th standard.

  •   The scribe must not be a candidate for any test paper in JAM 2027.

  •   If there are Y candidates who require scribe, it will be ensured that a panel of (Y+1)
      scribes is available at the exam center so that every candidate can have               an
      alternative scribe to choose for the services.
  •   Each eligible PwD candidate will be presented with TWO scribes on the day before
      examination. The candidate has to choose one from those two scribes.
  •   Candidates shall NOT be permitted to bring their own scribe.

  •   PwD Candidates are permitted to visit the examination center a day before the
      examination to get familiar with the arrangements.




                                                                               Page | 20
                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



2.8    Compensatory Time

PwD candidates are eligible for one-hour compensatory time for each paper (i.e. for these
candidates the end time will be 13:30 IST for Forenoon Session and 18:30 IST for
Afternoon Session).
Persons with less than 40% disability and having diﬀiculty in writing, covered under the
definition of Section 2 (s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the definition of
Section 2(r) of the said Act are also eligible for one-hour compensatory time for each paper.
Candidates who are eligible to avail the facility of scribe can opt for compensatory time of
one hour, for the three-hours examination even if they do not utilize the services of a scribe.




   Note




  •   The compensatory time of 60 minutes will be provided automatically, which needs to
      be checked in the candidate’s console.

  •   PwD candidates who are not eligible for the facility of scribe may be given the
      compensatory time provided that they submit a certificate during the application to
      the effect that the candidate concerned has physical limitation to write from the Chief
      Medical Oﬀicer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a Government Health Care
      institution in the prescribed Pro Forma (Appendix I of the oﬀice order F.No. P-
      13013/75/2023-Policy-DD-III dated August 01, 2025).

  •   PwD candidates having disability in terms of vision will be given an option to view
      the Test Paper on the computer screen in a magnified font.




                                                                                 Page | 21
                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Warning

If it is found at any stage that a candidate has availed compensatory time and/or the services
of a scribe, but does not possess the extent of disability that warrants the same, the
candidate will be excluded from the process of evaluation, ranking and admission. In case
such a candidate has already been admitted to any IIT, the admission of the candidate will
be cancelled.




Note




   •


   •


   •




                                                                                  Page | 22
                                                             JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                      3
ONLINE APPLICATION PROCEDURE

3.1      JOAPS Registration

Candidates can apply for JAM 2027 through https://jam.iitkgp.ac.in from September 11,
2026 to October 19, 2026. Candidates have to first register on JAM Online Application
Processing System (JOAPS), by providing their name, a valid e-mail address, an active
mobile number, and setting a password. After successful registration, the candidate’s
Enrollment ID and OTP will be sent to the e-mail address and mobile number provided
by the candidate. The candidate needs to use this Enrollment ID along with the password
for submitting the application.



   Tip




   JOAPS provides an online interface to the candidate for interacting with the JAM 2027
administration. With this interface, a candidate can:


• Apply for the examination online, upload a photograph, a signature, 10th marksheet with
  DoB, and other documents like certificates (for OBC- NCL/EWS/SC/ST/PwD) if applicable.

• Pay the application fee through any of the electronic payment modes only

• Check the varied status of the application form, viz., Submitted, Under Scrutiny, Accepted,
  Defect Status, Status after rectification, rejected with valid reasons, etc.




                                                                                 Page | 23
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


3.2         Choice of Examination Cities

JAM 2027 Examination will be conducted in eight zones. The names of these eight zones
along with respective cities are enlisted in Annexure IV. Candidates must specify their
first, second, and third choices of cities at the time of applying for JAM 2027. When the
choice of the first city is made, then the zone gets determined, and the candidates will be
able to choose the second and third choice cities only from the same zone. In case any
city in the choices is not allotted due to operational reasons, an alternative city will be
allotted.


   Tip




                                                                              Page | 24
                                                            JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



3.3    Filling the Online Application Form

JOAPS allows the candidate to enter the data, save a partially filled form, log out and
resume application form filling by logging in again. The JOAPS portal is self-explanatory
and user-friendly. The following information will be required while filling the application
form at JOAPS portal:

  1. Personal information (name, e-mail id, date of birth, mobile number, parent’s /
      guardian’s name, parent’s/ guardian’s mobile number, etc.)



         Note




  2. Address for communication including PIN code.
  3. Details of Eligibility degree.
  4. Name and address with PIN code of the College/Institute/University.
  5. Choice of JAM paper(s).
  6. Choice of JAM Examination Cities.
  7. Scanned copy of 10th standard (SSC) Mark sheet with DoB.
  8. High-quality image of the candidate’s photograph and signature conforming to the
      specifications given in Section 3.4 (Photograph Requirements) and Section 3.5
      (Signature Requirements), respectively.
  9. Scanned copy of the Category (OBC-NCL/EWS/SC/ST) Certificate (if applicable) as
      per guidelines given in Section 3.6.
 10. Scanned copy of Physical Disability Certificate (if applicable) AND Unique Disability
      Identification (UDID) number.




                                                                               Page | 25
                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




 11. Details of the Photo Identity Document (ID). Any one of the following Photo ID
    documents is required/acceptable: Aadhaar ID, Driving License, PAN Card,
    Passport, or Voter ID.




       Note




12. Mode of Payment – Net banking / Debit card / Credit card / UPI/ Wallet.




       Note




                                                                       Page | 26
                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


3.4    Photograph Requirements

 1. Upload only a good quality (not blurred), RECENT and COLOURED photograph.
 2. The background of the photograph must be white or a very light colour.
 3. A passport size (3.5 cm Width × 4.5 cm Height) JPEG/JPG format photograph of the
      face of the candidate is required for the application form.
 4. Maximum pixel size of the JPEG/JPG image can be 480 × 640. The minimum pixel
      size of the JPEG/JPG image should be 240 × 320. The file size of the image should
      be in the range of 20 KB to 200 KB. Aspect ratio (width: height) has to be between
      0.66 and 0.89.
 5. The face should occupy at least 50% of the area of the photograph with a full-face
      view looking into the camera directly.
 6. Forehead, eyes, nose, ears, and chin should be clearly visible. These must not
      be covered by hair, any cloth/face-mask, or any shadow.
 7. If glare cannot be avoided, the photograph should be clicked without the
      spectacles.
 8. Do not wear spectacles with dark or tinted glasses while taking the photograph; only
      clear glasses are permitted.




       Warning




         Note




                                                                              Page | 27
                        JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
    Sample Photographs
A: Sample Photographs: Acceptable




    B: Sample Photographs: Not Acceptable




                                            Page | 28
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


3.5    Signature Requirements

  •   Upload only a good quality (not blurred) image of your signature using a black or
      dark blue ink pen ONLY.
  •   Size of the signature should be within 2 cm × 7 cm (Height × Width).
  •   Name written in CAPITAL LETTERS, Initials or signature in any other colour (other
      than black or dark blue) will NOT be accepted.
  •   Use a scanner to get the digital image of the signature.
  •   Only JPEG/JPG image format will be accepted.
  •   The maximum pixel size of the JPEG/JPG image of the signature can be 160 × 560
      while the minimum pixel size of the JPEG/JPG image should be 80 × 280.
  •   The file size of the image should be in the range of 10 KB to 150 KB. Aspect ratio
      (width: height) has to be between 3.15 and 4.04.



      Tip




                                                                              Page | 29
                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


   Sample Signatures


 A: Acceptable signatures




B: Not Accepted Signatures




                                             Page | 30
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



3.6   Certificate for OBC-NCL/EWS/SC/ST/PwD

  •   Candidates who belong to OBC-NCL, EWS, SC, ST and/or PwD category have to
      upload a valid certificate issued ONLY by authorized oﬀicials (Please refer
      Annexure V).

  •   The PwD should meet the requirements specified in Annexure V.

  •   The OBC-NCL and EWS certificate should be submitted in the format shown in
      Annexure VI and Annexure VII, respectively.

  •   The OBC-NCL and EWS certificate should have been issued on or after April 1,
      2026.




       Note




  •   Candidates should upload scanned copy of the relevant certificate in pdf format of
      file size in the range 10 KB to 300 KB. Candidates shall be required to submit the
      same certificate during admissions to the respective Admitting Institutes.

  •   After filling in the required fields in the application form and uploading the required
      documents, the candidate must review the application               form before final
      submission and payment.

  •   Any application that is incomplete in any respect and does not have the required
      valid documents is liable to be rejected.




       Tip




                                                                               Page | 31
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




3.7    Application Fee Payment Procedure

The application fee has to be paid ONLINE only. Candidates will be able to make the
payment using net-banking, debit/credit card, UPI or Wallet until October 19, 2026.
Please follow the outlined steps before proceeding for making any payment.

   •   View the application by clicking the Save and View button.
   •   Check the application and ensure that there are no errors in the application
       form.
   •   Ensure that all the relevant and valid documents are uploaded.
   •   If there is any mistake, edit the relevant fields before proceeding for the payment.
   •   Click on Proceed for Payment button.



        Note




   •   On the fee payment portal, the fee amount and bank charges will be shown.
       Confirm that the payment is for JAM 2027.

   •   Once confirmed and payment is successful, the candidate will be redirected back
       to the JOAPS Website, where it shows confirmation of the fee payment.

   •   If the candidate had selected only ONE Test Paper, there will be an option to
       choose a second Test Paper. If candidate desires to do so, he/she can proceed
       by paying the additional amount for second Test Paper as indicated in Table 2.2.

   •   If candidates have diﬀiculty in making the fee payment (due to poor internet
       connection or power failure) or are not sure whether payment has been processed
       or not, then they should login to JOAPS after about an hour and check the status
       of the payment.
   •   A new online payment should be initiated if the payment of fee is not reflected in
       the JOAPS portal.




                                                                              Page | 32
                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
   •   If the payment is not made, the application will be rejected. In case, the fee amount
       has been debited from the account of candidate, but JOAPS does not
       acknowledge any fee payment, then the money will be credited back to the
       account within ten working days.



       Tip




3.8    Scrutiny of Applications

Applications shall be scrutinized to verify the data entered by the candidate, with the
submitted supporting documents, clarity of the photograph and signature. If everything is
found to be in order, the application will be accepted, else, defects in the application shall
be marked and intimated to the candidate for rectification within a stipulated time.


   •   The status of the application and defects marked in the application will be
       intimated to the candidates through e-mail and/or SMS.
   •   The latest status of an application will be updated after the receipt and re-
       scrutiny of the application.
   •   The status of an application can be checked at any point of time by logging in
       JOAPS.
   •   Candidates should rectify the marked defects in the application before the
       stipulated time.




       Warning




                                                                                Page | 33
                                                               JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

3.9     Admit Card

An Admit Card bearing the Candidate’s Name, Registration Number, Photograph,
Signature and Name(s) and Code(s) of the Test Paper(s) applied, along with the Name
and Address of the Test Centre allotted, will be avail- able for download from JOAPS
from January 05, 2027 until the day of the examination.



  •   Admit Cards will not be sent by post/e-mail.
  •   The candidate should carefully examine the Admit Card for all the entries made
      therein. In case of any discrepancy, the candidate should inform through email to:
      jam@iitkgp.ac.in

  •   A printout of the downloaded Admit Card (preferably colored) must be brought
      to the Test Center along with the original and valid Photo ID submitted during
      registration.

  •   No candidate will be permitted to appear in JAM 2027 examination without a valid Admit
      Card, and a valid and original Photo ID.

  •   The Admit Card should be presented for verification.

  •   A copy of the Admit Card of JAM 2027 must be carefully preserved by the Candidate and
      produced at the time of admission, if required by the Admitting Institute.




       Note




       Tip




                                                                                   Page | 34
                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                   4
ADMISSION PROCEDURE


4.1    Admission Procedure

A brief summary of the admission procedure is provided in this section. The detailed
information including timelines will be given in the JAM 2027 Admission Brochure to be
published in the second week of March 2027.




4.1.1 Academic Programs

The list of academic programs available at the 23 admitting IITs as part of JAM 2027 is
given in Annexure II. A qualified candidate can apply to take admissions for all eligible
programs with a single application. Candidates who have qualified in two Test Papers
also need to apply with a single application.




                                                                            Page | 35
                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



4.1.2 Eligibility Requirements (ERs) and Minimum Educational
        Qualifications (MEQs)

Candidates who have successfully completed an undergraduate degree or currently
studying in the final year of undergraduate are eligible for admission through JAM 2027.
Proof of having passed the Qualifying Degree with the Minimum Educational
Qualifications (MEQs) as specified by the Admit- ting Institute in Annexure II should be
submitted within the timeline provided by the respective Admitting Institute. At the time
of admission, all admitted candidates may have to submit a Physical Fitness certificate
from a registered medical practitioner in the prescribed form to the Admitting Institute.
At the time of admission, the admitted candidates may also have to undergo a Physical
Fitness test by a medical board constituted by the Admit- ting Institute. In case
candidates are not found physically fit to pursue their chosen program of study, their
admission is liable to be cancelled.



4.1.3 Application for Admission


A qualified candidate satisfying the ERs and MEQs seeking admission has to apply

online through the JAM 2027 website to the preferred programs in 23 IITs where

admission is sought. The candidate needs to provide the required information, such as

choice of programs in order of preference, educational qualifications, percentage of

marks/CGPA, category, PwD status, etc. A payment of ₹750 (Rupees Seven hundred

and fifty only) is to be made online as non-refundable processing fee. Foreign nationals

with Indian degree are eligible to apply, subject to the policy of the Admitting Institute.




                                                                               Page | 36
                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

4.1.4 Reservations

In each program, a certain number of seats are reserved/allocated for candidates
belonging to various categories.


  •   Candidates who seek admission under SC or ST category must submit                     the
      requisite certificate issued by a competent authority as specified in Annexure V.
  •   Candidates who seek admission under the OBC-NCL or EWS Category must submit
      a valid certificate issued by the competent authority as specified in Annexure V, in the
      format shown in Annexure VI for OBC- NCL and Annexure VII for EWS.
  •   The certificates must have been issued on or after April 01, 2026.
  •   Candidates who seek admission under PwD category must submit a disability
      certificate (refer Annexure V if applicable) and UDID number.




4.1.5 Provisional Admission

A maximum of four rounds of admission will be made to fill the available seats. An
additional round of admission (if any) may be conducted depending on the number of
vacant seats and will be notified to the candidates well in advance. Candidates who are
offered a seat can either (i) accept the offered seat as final with no changes in the
subsequent round, or (ii) accept the offered seat in this round with an option to be
considered for being upgraded to other programs, only for which they have given better
preferences, in subsequent round(s), if any, or (iii) reject the offer and quit the admission
process.




  Note




                                                                                Page | 37
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



4.1.6 Admission Fee

After the declaration of the Admission List in each round, an intimation will be sent by

the Organizing Institute to the candidates concerned. Along with the submission of

acceptance form, these candidates will also have to pay an advance seat booking fee

(₹15,000 for General/OBC-NCL/EWS category candidates and ₹7,500 for SC/ST/PwD

category candidates) online through JOAPS, within the deadline mentioned in the offer

letter. This amount will be transferred to the Admitting Institute and it will be adjusted

against the Institute Fee at the time of registration.




   Warning




                                                                             Page | 38
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                     5
LEGAL AND PRIVACY POLICY

5.1      Legal Policy

In all matters concerning JAM 2027, the decision of the Organizing Institute, JAM 2027
will be final and binding on all the applicants. The Organizing Institute, has the overall
responsibility of conducting JAM 2027. In case of any claims or disputes related to JAM
2027, the Calcutta High Court, Kolkata shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to entertain
and settle any such disputes and claims. Information contained in this brochure is correct
as on August 22, 2026. There may be changes in future due to unavoidable reasons. As
and when any changes are made, they will be notified on the following website. JAM 2027
website: https://jam.iitkgp.ac.in



5.2      Privacy Policy

The Privacy Policy governs the use of the JAM 2027 website. JAM Online Application
Processing System (JOAPS) is committed to protecting your privacy and works towards
offering an eﬀicient and safe online experience. JAM treats your personal information or
your use of the service as private and confidential and does not check, edit or reveal it
to any third parties except where it believes in good faith, such action is necessary to
comply with the applicable legal and regulatory processes or to protect and d efend the
rights of other users or to enforce the terms of service which are binding on all the users
of the site. Except where specifically agreed upon or necessary for operational or
regulatory reasons, JAM will not send you any unsolicited information v ia e-mail. JAM
authority reserves the right, in its discretion, to change or modify all or any part of this
information at any time, effective immediately upon notice published on the website.
Your continued use of the website constitutes your binding acceptance of these terms
and conditions, including any changes or modifications made by JAM as permitted
above.



                                                                              Page | 39
       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Note




                           Page | 40
                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                   Page | 41
     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Annexures




                               Page | 42
                    JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                             A
ANNEXURE I


JAM 2027 SYLLABUS




                                        Page | 43
                              JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                  Page | 44
                                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                         JAM 2027
                                      Biotechnology
                                           (BT)

 The Biotechnology (BT) Test Paper comprises Biology / Biotechnology, Chemistry,
                            Mathematics and Physics.

Section 1: General Biology
Cell Biology: Structure of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells; Membrane structure and function;
Organelles and internal organization of the eukaryotic cell; Cell communication – signalling pathways:
endocrine and paracrine signalling; Extracellular matrix and apoptosis; Cell cycle – stages of mitosis
and meiosis.
Biochemistry: Structure and function of biological macromolecules; Enzymes – basic mechanisms
of enzyme catalysis and regulation, Hill coefficient, Michaelis-Menten kinetics, enzyme inhibition,
vitamins as coenzymes; Bioenergetics – free-energy change, high-energy compounds, biological
oxidation-reduction reactions and reduction potential; Metabolism – glycolysis, TCA cycle and their
regulation, oxidative phosphorylation, photosynthesis, nitrogen fixation, urea cycle.
Genetics: Mendelian inheritance; Exception to Mendelian law of independent assortment; Genetic
interactions, linkage, recombination and chromosome mapping, Chromosomal mutations; Genetic
disorders; Population Genetics
Molecular Biology: Landmark experiments that established DNA is the genetic material; DNA
replication; Proof-reading and repair of DNA; DNA recombination; Transcription; RNA processing;
Translation; Regulation of gene expression including operons and differential gene expression in
multicellular eukaryotes.
Evolution and Ecology: Darwinian view – natural selection, fossil record and descent with
modification; Different types of speciation; Phylogenetic classification; Origin of life – abiotic synthesis
of biological macromolecules, protocell, dating fossils and origin of multicellularity; Climate patterns;
Terrestrial and aquatic biomes; Environmental constraints on species distribution; Factors affecting
population density; Interactions among communities; Ecosystems; Ecological remediation.

Section 2. Microbial, Plant and Animal Biotechnology
Microbiology: Microbial genetics - transformation, conjugation and transduction; Structural features
of viruses, bacteria, fungi and protozoa; Pathogenic microorganisms; Nutrition-based classification of
microbes; Microbial metabolism; Isolation and Cultivation of microorganisms; Growth kinetics;
Microbial control and sterilization; Microbial fermentation – batch, fed-batch and continuous;
Bioreactor and its components; Introduction to downstream processing - product recovery and
purification; Effluent treatment.
Plant Biology: Types of tissues and organs; Primary and secondary growth; Morphogenesis;
Transport in vascular plants; Plant nutrition; Development of flowering plants – gametophytic and
sporophytic generations; Plant growth regulators; Photobiology; Plant Tissue Culture – Cellular
totipotency and microporopagation; Transgenic plants; Plant response to biotic and abiotic stresses.
Animal Biology: Digestive, circulatory, respiratory, excretory, nervous, reproductive and endocrine
systems; Basics of immunology – Innate and adaptive immunity, Immune cells, immunoglobulins and
major histocompatibility complexes; Animal development – Fertilization, embryonic pattern formation,
cleavage, gastrulation, cellular differentiation and morphogenesis; Mammalian cell culture, animal
cloning; Transgenic animals.

Section 3: Biotechniques

                                                                                           Page | 45
                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
Biochemical and Microscopy Techniques: Chromatography; Centrifugation; Electrophoresis;
ELISA, Western blotting and immunostaining; Principles of light, fluorescence and electron
microscopy.
Molecular Biology Techniques: DNA cloning – plasmid vectors, and restriction enzymes;
Polymerase Chain Reaction; Expression of cloned eukaryotic genes in bacteria; Hybridization
techniques; DNA sequencing; Recombinant DNA technology in medicine, agriculture and forensic
sciences.
Computational Biology: Bioinformatics; Sequence and structure databases; DNA, RNA and protein
sequence analysis; Secondary structure and 3D structure prediction; Biochemical databases.
Instrumental Techniques – Spectroscopy: fundamentals of molecular spectroscopy, emission and
absorption spectroscopy, UV-Vis, circular dichroism, FTIR and 1-D proton NMR spectroscopy, basics
of mass spectrometry; Basics of calorimetry; Basic concepts of crystallography; Flowcytometry.

Section 4: Chemistry (10+2+3 level)
Structure and properties of Atoms: Bohr's theory; Periodicity in properties.
Bonding in molecules: Chemical bonding; Complex formation; Physical and chemical basis of
molecular interactions.
Chemical kinetics, thermodynamics, and equilibrium: Chemical equilibrium; Chemical
thermodynamics (first and second law); and Chemical kinetics (zero and first order reactions).
Physical and chemical properties of compounds: Chemical catalysis; Acid-base concepts;
Concepts of pH and buffer; Conjugative effects and resonance; Inductive effects; Electromeric
effects; Photochemistry; and Electrochemistry.
Chemistry of organic compounds: Hydrocarbons; Alkyl halides; Alcohols; Aldehydes; Ketones;
Carboxylic acids; Amines and their derivatives; Aromatic hydrocarbons, halides, nitro and amino
compounds, phenols, diazonium salts, carboxylic and sulphonic acids; Soaps and detergents;
Stereochemistry of carbon compounds.

Section 5: Mathematics (10+2 level)
General mathematics: Sets; Relations and Functions; Logarithms; Complex numbers; Linear and
Quadratic equations; Sequences and Series; Trigonometry; Cartesian System of Rectangular
Coordinates; Straight lines and Family; Three Dimensional Geometry; Permutations and
Combinations; Binomial Theorem; Vectors; Matrices and Determinants; Functions; Limits and
Continuity; Differentiation; Ordinary Differential Equations; Application of Derivatives; Integration as
inverse process of differentiation; Definite and indefinite integrals; Methods of Integration; Integration
by parts.
Probability & Statistics: Mean, median, mode and standard deviation; Random variables; Poisson,
normal and binomial distributions; Correlation and regression analysis.

Section 6: Physics (10+2 level)
General physics: Units and measurements; Motion in one and two dimensions; Laws of motion;
Work and kinetic energy; Conservation of energy; System of particles and rotational motion;
Mechanical properties of solids and fluids; Thermal properties of matter; Heat and laws of
thermodynamics; Kinetic theory of gases; Electric charge and field; Electric potential and capacitance;
Current, resistance and simple circuits; Moving charges and magnetic field; Magnetism and matter;
Electromagnetic induction; Electromagnetic waves; Alternating currents; Optics: Geometrical Optics
– Reflection by spherical mirrors, Refraction at spherical surfaces and lenses, Total internal reflection
and Optical instruments; Wave optics – Reflection and refraction of plane waves, Interference,
Diffraction, Polarization, and Young’s experiment: Dual nature of radiation and matter; Atoms, nuclei
and nuclear physics; Semiconductor materials, devices and simple circuits.




                                                                                         Page | 46
                                                                    JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                          JAM 2027
                                        Chemistry (CY)


Section 1: Basic Mathematical Concepts (10+2 Level):
Functions; maxima and minima; integrals; ordinary differential equations; vectors and
matrices; determinants; elementary statistics.

Section 2: Physical Chemistry:
2.1: Atomic and Molecular Structure: Planck’s black body radiation, Photoelectric effect, Bohr’s
theory, de Broglie postulate, Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle; Schr¨odinger’s wave equation
(including mathematical treatment), postulates of quantum mechanics, normalized and orthogonal
wave functions, its complex conjugate (idea of complex numbers) and significance of Ѱ 2; Operators;
Particle in one- dimension box, radial and angular wave functions for hydrogen atom, radial probability
distribution; Finding maxima of distribution functions (idea of maxima and minima), energy spectrum
of hydrogen atom; Shapes of s, p, d and f orbitals; Pauli’s Exclusion Principle; Hund’s rule of maximum
multiplicity.

2.2: Gaseous State: Kinetic molecular model of a gas: collision frequency; collision diameter; mean
free path and viscosity of gases; Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution: molecular velocities, law of
equipartition of energy, molecular basis of heat capacities; Ideal gases, and deviations from ideal gas
behaviour, van der Waals equation of state; critical state, law of corresponding states.

2.3: Liquid State: Physical properties of Liquid, vapour pressure, surface tension and co-efficient of
viscosity and their applications; effect of concentration of solutes on surface tension and viscosity;
effect of temperature on viscosity of liquids.

2.4: Solid State: Unit Cells, Miller indices, crystal systems and Bravais Lattices, elementary
applications of vectors to crystal systems; X-ray diffraction, Bragg’s Law, Structure of NaCl, CsCl, and
KCl, diamond, and graphite; Close packing in metals and metal compounds, semiconductors,
insulators; Defects in crystals, lattice energy; isomorphism; heat capacity of solids.

2.5: Chemical Thermodynamics: Mathematical treatment: Exact and in-exact differentials, partial
derivatives, Euler’s reciprocity, cyclic rule; Reversible and irreversible processes; Laws of
thermodynamics, thermochemistry, thermodynamic functions, such as enthalpy, entropy, and Gibbs
free energy, their properties and applications; Partial molar quantities, dependence of thermodynamic
parameters on composition, Gibbs Duhem equation, chemical potential and its applications.

2.6: Chemical and Phase Equilibria: Law of mass action; Kp, Kc, Kx and Kn; Effect of temperature on
K; Le-Chatelier principle; Ionic equilibria in solutions; pH and buffer solutions; Salt hydrolysis; Solubility
and solubility product; Acid– base titration curves; Indicators; Dilute solutions; Raoult’s and Henry’s
Laws and their applications; Colligative properties; Gibbs phase rule; Phase equilibria; single and two-
component phase diagrams.

2.7: Electrochemistry: Conductivity, equivalent and molar conductivity and their properties;
Kohlrausch law; DebyeH¨uckel-Onsager equation; Ionic velocities, mobilities, transfer ence numbers;
Applications of conductance measurement; Quantitative aspects of Faraday’s laws of electrolysis,
applications of electrolysis in metallurgy and industry; Electromotive force of a cell, Nernst equation;
Standard electrode potential, Electrochemical series; Concentration cells with and without
transference; Applications of EMF measurements including potentiometric titrations.


                                                                                            Page | 47
                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

2.8: Chemical Kinetics: Order and molecularity of a reaction, differential and integrated form of rate
expressions; Kinetics of opposing, parallel, and consecutive reactions; Steady state approximation in
reaction mechanisms; Chain reactions; Uni-molecular reaction (Lindemann mechanism); Temperature
dependence of reaction rates, Arrhenius equation; activation energy; Collision theory of reaction rates;
Types of catalysts, specificity and selectivity, mechanisms of catalyzed reactions at solid surfaces;
Enzyme catalysis (Michaelis-Menten mechanism, Double reciprocal plot), Acid-base catalysis.
2.9: Adsorption: Gibbs adsorption equation; adsorption isotherm; types of adsorption; surface area of
adsorbents; surface films on liquids.

2.10: Spectroscopy: Beer-Lambert’s law; fundamental concepts of rotational, vibrational, electronic
and magnetic resonance spectroscopy.

Section 3: Organic Chemistry
3.1: Basic Concepts in Organic Chemistry and Stereochemistry: Electronic effects (resonance,
inductive, hyperconjugation) and steric effects and its applications (acid/base property); optical
isomerism in compounds with and without any stereocenters (allenes, biphenyls); conformation of
acyclic systems (substituted ethane/n-propane/n-butane) and cyclic systems, substituted
cyclohexanes, and polycyclic (cis and trans decalins) systems.

3.2: Organic Reaction Mechanism and Synthetic Applications: Chemistry of reactive intermediates
(carbocations, carbanions, free radicals, carbenes, nitrenes, benzynes); nucleophilic substitution,
elimination reactions and mechanisms; Hofmann-Curtius- Lossen rearrangement, Wolff
rearrangement, Simmons-Smith reaction, Reimer-Tiemann reaction, Michael reaction, Darzens
reaction, Wittig reaction and McMurry reaction; Pinacolpinacolone, Favorskii, benzilic acid
rearrangement, Baeyer-Villeger reaction; oxidation and reduction reactions in organic chemistry;
Organometallic reagents in organic synthesis (Grignard, organolithium , organocopper and organozinc
(Reformatsky only); Diels-Alder, electrocyclic and sigmatropic reactions; functional group inter-
conversions and structural problems using chemical reactions.

3.3: Qualitative Organic Analysis: Identification of functional groups by chemical tests; elementary
UV, IR and 1H NMR spectroscopic techniques as tools for structural elucidation of simple organic
molecules.

3.4: Natural Products Chemistry: Chemistry of alkaloids, steroids, terpenes, carbohydrates, amino
acids, peptides and nucleic acids.

3.5: Aromatic and Heterocyclic Chemistry: Monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic aromatic hydrocarbons,
and monocyclic compounds with one hetero atom: synthesis, reactivity and properties, aromaticity;
Electrophilic and nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions.

Section 4: Inorganic Chemistry
4.1: Periodic Table: Periodic classification of elements, Aufbau’s principle, periodicity; Variations of
orbital energy, effective nuclear charge, atomic, covalent, and ionic radii, ionization enthalpy, electron
gain enthalpy, and electronegativity with atomic number, electronic configuration of diatomic molecules
(first and second row elements).

4.2: Extractions of Metals: General methods of isolation and purification of elements; Principles and
applications of Ellingham diagram.
 A. 4.3: Chemical Bonding and shapes of molecules: Ionic bond: Packing of ions in crystals, radius
     ratio rule, Born-Landé equation, Kapustinskii expression, Madelung constant, Born-Haber cycle,
     solvation energy, polarizing power and polarizability; Fajan’s rules; Covalent bond: Lewis



structure, valence bond theory. Hybridization, molecular orbital theory, molecular orbital diagrams of

                                                                                         Page | 48
                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
diatomic and simple polyatomic molecules and ions; Multiple bonding (σ and π bond approach) and
bond lengths; van der Waals forces, ion-dipole forces, dipole-dipole interactions, induced dipole
interactions, instantaneous dipole- induced dipole interactions, hydrogen bonding; Effect of
intermolecular forces on melting and boiling points, solubility energetics of dissolution process; Bond
dipole, dipole moment, and molecular polarizabilities; VSEPR theory and shapes of molecules; ionic
solids.

4.4: Main Group Elements (s and p blocks): Reactions of alkali and alkaline earth metals with
oxygen, hydrogen and water; Alkali and alkaline earth metals in liquid ammonia; Gradation in properties
of main group element in a group; Inert pair effect; Synthesis, structure and properties of diborane,
ammonia, silane, phosphine and hydrogen sulphide; Allotropes of carbon; Oxides of nitrogen,
phosphorus and sulphur; Oxoacids of phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine; Halides of silicon and
phosphorus; Synthesis and properties of borazine, silicone and phosphazene; Synthesis and reactions
of xenon fluorides.
4.5: Transition Metals (d block): Characteristics of d-block elements; oxide, hydroxide and salts of
first row metals; coordination complexes: structure, isomerism, reaction mechanism and electronic
spectra; VB, MO and crystal field theoretical approaches for structure, color and magnetic properties
of metal complexes; Organometallic compounds with metal-ligand single and multiple bonds (such as
metal carbonyls, metal nitrosyls and metallocenes); Homogenous catalysis involving Wilkinson’s
catalyst.

4.6: Bioinorganic Chemistry: Essentials and trace elements of life; basic reactions in the biological
systems and the role of metal ions, especially Fe2+, and Zn2+; structure and function of myoglobin,
hemoglobin and carbonic anhydrase.

4.7: Instrumental Methods of Analysis: Basic principles; instrumentations and simple applications of
conductometry, potentiometry and UV-vis spectrophotometry; analyses of water, air and soil samples.

4.8: Analytical Chemistry: Principles of qualitative and quantitative analysis; Acidbase, oxidation-
reduction and complexometric titrations using EDTA; Precipitation reactions; Use and types of
indicators; Use of organic reagents in inorganic analysis; Radioactivity, nuclear reactions, applications
of isotopes; Mathematical treatment in error analysis, elementary statistics and probability theory.
.




                                                                                        Page | 49
                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



                                            JAM 2027
                                      Economics (EN)


1. Mathematics for Economics
Preliminaries and functions: Set theory and number systems; monotonicity and inverse functions;
elementary functions: quadratic, polynomial, power, exponential, logarithmic; logarithms and
elasticities (log-derivative interpretation); functions of several variables; graphs and level curves;
convex set; concavity and quasi-concavity of function; convexity and quasi-convexity of functions;
sequences and series: convergence, algebraic properties and applications (including geometric series
and basic limits of sequences).
Differential calculus: Limits, continuity and differentiability; mean value theorems; Taylor’s theorem;
partial differentiation; gradient; chain rule; second and higher order derivatives: properties and
applications; Hessian; implicit function theorem and application to comparative statics problems;
homogeneous and homothetic functions: characterisations and applications.
Integral calculus: Definite integrals, fundamental theorems, indefinite integrals and applications.
Differential equations, and difference equations: First order ordinary equations with applications;
steady state/equilibrium and basic stability (including simple phase-diagram intuition where relevant).
Linear algebra: Matrix representations and elementary operations; systems of linear equations:
properties of their solution; linear independence and dependence; rank; determinants; matrix inverse
and conditions for invertibility; eigenvectors and eigenvalues of square matrices (primarily 2x2); basic
diagonalization idea (simple cases); symmetric matrices and quadratic forms; definiteness and
semidefiniteness of quadratic forms and interpretation stability.
Optimization: Local and global optima: geometric and calculus-based characterisations and
applications; multivariate optimization; use of quadratic forms, Hessians in optimization; constrained
optimization (equality constraints) and method of Lagrange multiplier; constrained optimization with
inequality constraints: Karush-Kuhn–Tucker (KKT) conditions and complementary slackness (basic
form and applications); second order conditions of optima; definiteness and optimality; properties of
value function: envelope theorem and applications; linear programming: graphical solution, matrix
formulation, duality, economic interpretation.
2. Statistics for Economics
Descriptive Statistics: Different types of Charts and diagrams; Frequency Distribution; Measures of
Central Tendency; Measures of Dispersion; Moments, Skewness, Kurtosis; Index Numbers.
Probability Theory: Random experiment, events, and sample space; Classical and axiomatic
definitions of probability; Theorems of probability; Repeated trials and drawing with and without
replacement; Conditional probability, independent events, and Bayes’ theorem; Random variable and
its probability distribution; Markov’s inequality; Chebyshev's inequality; Expectation, variance, and
other higher order moments of a random variable; Moment Generating Function; Bernoulli trials;
Binomial, Poisson, Hypergeometric, Uniform, and Normal distributions with concepts of probability
mass and probability density functions; Chi-square, Student’s t-, and F-distributions, with their relation
with Normal distribution; Joint distribution of random variables, conditional distributions, and their
properties.
Mathematical Statistics: Random sampling and its different types; Concept of sampling distribution;
Method of Estimation with the concepts of estimator and estimate; Confidence intervals vs. point and
interval estimations; Properties of Estimators: Unbiasedness, Efficiency, and Consistency; Law of
Large Numbers and Central Limit Theorem.



                                                                                         Page | 50
                                                                 JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
Hypothesis Testing: Concepts of Parameter vs. statistic; Null and Alternative Hypotheses; Concepts
of test statistic and its distribution; Concept of p-value; Type I and Type II errors and computation of
their probabilities; Size and Power of a test; Comparing two population characteristics on the basis of
randomly drawn samples from them.
Correlation and Regression: Correlation and types of correlation; Nature of regression analysis;
Method of Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) vis-à-vis Method of Moments vis-à-vis Maximum Likelihood
estimations; CLRM assumptions, statistical properties of OLS estimators and hypothesis testing;
Gauss-Markov Theorem and concept of Best Linear Unbiased Estimator (BLUE); Goodness of fit.
3. Microeconomics
Consumer theory: Preferences, utility and representation theorem; budget constraint; choice; demand
(ordinary and compensated); demand elasticities; Slutsky equation; revealed preference axioms.
Theory of production and cost: Production technology; short run and long run; production functions
with one and more inputs; isoquants; returns to scale; short run and long run costs; cost curves in the
short run and long run.
Perfect competition and partial equilibrium: Profit maximization; individual and market supply;
market equilibrium; consumer and producer surplus; government intervention in perfectly competitive
markets: commodity taxes, subsidies, MSP, price ceilings and floors.
General equilibrium and welfare: Equilibrium and efficiency under pure exchange and production;
the two theorems of welfare economics.
Introductory Game theory: Strategic-form games; dominant and dominated strategies; iterated
elimination of dominated strategies; best response; pure and mixed strategy Nash equilibrium;
sequential-move games (finite horizon); backward induction; subgame perfect equilibrium.
Imperfect competition and market structure: Monopoly; pricing with market power; price
discrimination (first, second and third degrees); monopolistic competition; oligopoly models—Cournot,
Bertrand and Stackelberg.
Market failure and government policy: Externalities (Pigouvian taxes and subsidies); public goods
(Samuelson condition, Lindahl pricing); asymmetric information: adverse selection and moral hazard
(basic notions).
4. Macroeconomics
National income accounting: Key concepts and measurement; circular flow of income (closed and
open economy); nominal vs real GDP; GDP deflator; GDP and welfare.
Consumption and saving: Keynesian consumption (short run and long run); absolute income,
permanent income and life-cycle hypotheses; two-period model of consumption.
Production Function: Cobb-Douglas Production Function, Total Factor Productivity, Technological
Progress, Return to Scale, Cost Functions.
Labour Demand, Labour Supply, Investment: Profit Maximization under Perfect Competition, Labour
Demand, Capital Demand and Investment, Labour Supply through Consumption-Leisure Framework,
Structural, Frictional and Search Unemployment, Unemployment Rate, Aggregate Supply/Lucas
Supply Curve.
Unemployment and Inflation: CPI/Cost of Living Index, Inflation Rate, Causes and Costs of Inflation,
Aggregate Supply/Lucas Supply Curve and Phillips Curve.
Money Supply and Money Demand: Definition and roles of money; monetary Base; fiat vs. commodity
money, fractional reserve banking, balance Sheet of Central Bank and commercial banks, money
supply, deposit creation, money multiplier, monetary policy Tools (open market operations, reserve
requirements, discount rate); quantity theory of money, Keynesian liquidity preference theory, Baumol-
Tobin Model, Tobin’s speculative demand for money; seigniorage; optimal monetary policy (rules vs.
discretion).




                                                                                       Page | 51
                                                               JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

Asset Pricing: Bonds, and Stock Pricing, Gordon Growth Model of Stocks Price, Tobin’s q and
Investment, Risk Structure and Term Structure of Interest Rate, Yield Curve.
Fiscal policy (based on two-period models): Government budget constraint; revenues,
expenditures and deficits; distortionary vs non-distortionary taxes; Laffer curve; Ricardian
equivalence.
Income determination and policy in the short run: Goods and money market equilibrium; IS–LM;
classical vs Keynesian models; aggregate demand; fiscal and monetary multipliers; liquidity trap/zero
lower bound; Fisher equation and real interest rate; Taylor rule and principle; simple dynamic AD–AS
and stability.
Long-run growth: Stylized facts, Kaldor facts; Harrod–Domar model; Solow model with population
and technology growth; convergence (conditional/absolute); golden rule; dynamic inefficiency of
Solow model; growth accounting and Solow residual; endogenous growth (AK model); poverty trap.
Open economy macroeconomics: GNP; Balance of payments (trade balance, current account,
financial account); current account in an intertemporal (two-period) framework; nominal and real
exchange rates; fixed, flexible and dirty floating exchange rates; interest parity and capital market
integration; impossible trinity; purchasing power parity, Big Mac index, PPP-adjusted exchange rate;
Mundell–Fleming model.
5. Indian Economy
Introduction and features: Changing structure of the Indian economy. Changing paradigms of
Development Strategies and Economic Reforms.
Poverty, Inequality, Inflation and Unemployment: Various concepts and estimates of poverty;
Income inequality; Problem of unemployment; Interface between growth, poverty and employment;
Inclusive growth and Human Development; Sustainable Development Goals—Targets for Decent
Employment, reduction in Poverty, and Inequality. Inflation targeting and use of monetary and fiscal
policy.
Demographic Issues: Demographic trends, size and structure of population; Health and Education;
Skill challenges and demographic dividends; Sustainable Development Goals—Targets for Greater
Wellbeing and Better Human Capital.
Perspectives in Agriculture, Industry and Services: Agricultural growth performance and food
security, Industrial investment and growth, Service sector in India’s growth process.
External Sector and Issues in Indian Public Finance: Foreign trade and trade policy; Foreign
Exchange Reserves and exchange rate, Indian Union Budget and fiscal policy.




                                                                                     Page | 52
                                                                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                            JAM 2027
                                        Geology (GG)


The Planet Earth: Origin of the Solar System and the Earth; Internal structure, composition, and age
of the Earth; Pressure-temperature-density variations within the Earth; Principles of radiometric dating
(Rb-Sr, Sm-Nd, 14C); Volcanism and volcanic landforms; Earthquakes; Earth’s magnetism and gravity,
Isostasy; Concepts of Plate Tectonics and orogeny.

Geomorphology: Weathering, erosion, deposition; Endogenous and exogenous processes of
landform development; Soil formation; River and drainage basin/drainage pattern, network
characteristics; Fluvial, aeolian, marine, glacial and karst landforms.

Structural Geology: Concept of dip, strike, rake and plunge; Contour lines; Rule of ‘V’s and outcrop
patterns; Interpretation of geological maps; Cross-section construction; Classification and origin of folds,
faults, joints, unconformities, foliations and lineations; Stereographic and equal-area projections of planes
and lines; Quantitative interpretation of structures, outcrops, and bore-hole data.

Palaeontology: Major stages in the evolution of life forms; Fossils and their mode of preservation;
Application of macrofossils in age determination and pale environmental interpretations; Morphology,
major evolutionary trends and ages of important groups of invertebrates – Brachiopoda, Mollusca,
Trilobita, Echinodermata; Gondwana plant fossils; Vertebrate fossils (Equidae, Proboscidea) in India.

Stratigraphy: Principles of stratigraphy; Litho-, chrono - and bio-stratigraphic classification;
Stratigraphic correlation techniques; Archaean cratons of Peninsular India (Dharwar, Singhbhum and
Aravalli); Proterozoic mobile belts; Stratigraphy of Cuddapah and Vindhyan basins; Stratigraphy of
Paleozoic – Mesozoic of Spiti and Kashmir, Gondwana Supergroup, Jurassic of Kutch, Cretaceous of
Trichinopoly, Cenozonic sequences of Assam, Bengal and Siwaliks.

Mineralogy: Symmetry and forms in common crystal classes; Miller indices; Twinning and twinning
laws; Isomorphism, polymorphism, solid solution and exsolution; Elements of Optical Mineralogy;
Classification, structure, chemistry, physical, and optical properties of common rock-forming minerals.

Petrology: Igneous rocks – classification and texture; Forms of igneous bodies; Evolution and
diversification of magma; Use of binary systems to understand melting and crystallization behaviour of
rocks and magmas; Genesis of common igneous rocks and associations.
Sedimentary rocks – classification, texture, and structure; Petrology of sandstone and limestone; Basics
of sedimentary environments and facies. Metamorphic rocks – classification and texture; Types of
metamorphism; Controls on metamorphism – pressure, temperature and fluids; Concept of projections –
ACF, AKF and AFM diagrams; Phase Rule and its applications; Concepts of zones and facies,
Characteristic mineral assemblages of pelites in the Barrovian zones and mafic rocks in common facies.




                                                                                          Page | 53
                                                             JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Economic Geology: Physical properties of common economic minerals; Processes of formations
of ore mineral deposits - magmatic concentration, hydrothermal processes, oxidation and supergene
sulphide enrichment, residual and mechanical concentration; Mode of occurrence and distribution of
metallic and non-metallic mineral deposits in India; Ore grade and reserve estimation; Coal and
hydrocarbon geology and their Indian occurrences.

Applied Geology: Basics of groundwater geology; Types of aquifers, porosity and permeability;
Groundwater flow; Principles of engineering geology; Geological considerations in construction of
dams and tunnels; Basics of remote sensing.




                                                                                  Page | 54
                                                                    JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


                                            JAM 2027
                                   Mathematics (MA)


Section 1: Real Analysis
Sequences and Series of Real Numbers: Convergence of sequences, bounded and monotone
sequences, Cauchy sequences, Bolzano-Weierstrass theorem, absolute convergence, tests of
convergence for series– comparison test, ratio test, root test; Power series (of one real variable), radius
and interval of convergence, term-wise differentiation and integration of power series.
Functions of One Real Variable: Limit, continuity, intermediate value property, differentiation, Rolle’s
Theorem, mean value theorem, L’Hospital rule, Taylor’s theorem, Taylor’s series, maxima and minima,
Riemann integration (definite integrals and their properties), fundamental theorem of calculus.


Section 2: Multivariable Calculus and Differential Equations
Functions of Two or Three Real Variables: Limit, continuity, partial derivatives, total derivative, maxima
and minima.
Integral Calculus: Double and triple integrals, change of order of integration, calculating surface areas
and volumes using double integrals, calculating volumes using triple integrals.
Differential Equations: Bernoulli’s equation, exact differential equations, integrating factors, orthogonal
trajectories, homogeneous differential equations, method of separation of variables, linear differential
equations of second order with constant coefficients, method of variation of parameters, Cauchy-Euler
equation.

Section 3: Linear Algebra and Algebra
Basic algebra: Permutations and Combinations, Binomial Theorem
Matrices: Systems of linear equations, rank, nullity, rank-nullity theorem, inverse, determinant,
eigenvalues, eigenvectors.
Finite Dimensional Vector Spaces: Linear independence of vectors, basis, dimension, linear
transformations, matrix representation, range space, null space, rank-nullity theorem.
Groups: cyclic groups, abelian groups, non-abelian groups, permutation groups, normal subgroups,
quotient groups, Lagrange’s theorem for finite groups, group homomorphisms.




                                                                                         Page | 55
                                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                              JAM 2027
                            Mathematical Statistics (MS)

The Mathematical Statistics (MS) Test Paper comprises the following topics of Mathematics (Sections
1-3, about 25% weight) and Statistics (Sections 4-12, about 75% weight).
Mathematics (Sections 1-3)
Section 1; Sequences and Series of real numbers: Sequences of real numbers, their
convergence, and limits. Cauchy sequences and their convergence. Monotonic sequences and their
limits. Limits of standard sequences. Limit superior and limit inferior of sequences. Infinite series and
its convergence, and divergence. Convergence of series with non-negative terms. Tests for
convergence and divergence of a series. Comparison test, limit comparison test, D’Alembert’s ratio
test, Cauchy’s nth root test, Cauchy’s condensation test, and integral test. Absolute convergence of
series. Leibnitz’s test for the convergence of alternating series. Conditional convergence.
Convergence of power series and radius of convergence.

Section 2; Differential Calculus of one and two real variables, and Integral Calculus
Differential Calculus of one variable: Limits of functions of one real variable. Continuity and
differentiability of functions of one real variable. Properties of continuous and differentiable functions
of one real variable. Rolle's theorem and Lagrange's mean value theorems. Higher order derivatives,
Lebnitz's rule and its applications. Taylor's theorem with Lagrange's and Cauchy's form of remainders.
Taylor's and Maclaurin's series of standard functions. Indeterminate forms and L' Hospital's rule.
Maxima and minima of functions of one real variable, critical points, local maxima and minima, global
maxima and minima, and point of inflection.
Differential calculus of two variables: Limits of functions of two real variables. Continuity and
differentiability of functions of two real variables. Properties of continuous and differentiable functions
of two real variables. Partial differentiation and total differentiation. Lebnitz's rule for successive
differentiation. Maxima and minima of functions of two real variables. critical points, Hessian matrix,
and saddle points. Constrained optimization techniques (with Lagrange multiplier).
Integral Calculus: Fundamental theorems of integral calculus (single integral). Lebnitz's rule and its
applications. Differentiation under integral sign. Improper integrals. Beta and Gamma integrals:
properties and relationship between them. Double integrals. Change of order of integration.
Transformation of variables. Applications of definite integrals. Arc lengths, areas and volumes.

Section 3; Matrices and Determinants: ℝn and ℂn as vector spaces over real field. Span of a set.
Linear dependence and independence. Dimension and basis. Null space. Algebra of matrices.
Standard matrices (Symmetric and Skew Symmetric matrices, Hermitian and Skew Hermitian
matrices, Orthogonal and Unitary matrices, Idempotent and Nilpotent matrices). Definition, properties
and applications of determinants. Evaluation of determinants using transformations. Determinant of
product of matrices. Singular and non-singular matrices, and their properties. Trace of a matrix. Adjoint
and inverse of a matrix, and related properties. Rank and nullity of a matrix, row-rank, column-rank,
standard theorems on ranks, rank of the sum and the product of two matrices. Row reduction and
echelon forms. Consistent and inconsistent systems of linear equations. Properties of solutions of
system of linear equations. Use of determinants in solving the system of linear equations. Cramer’s
rule. Characteristic roots and Characteristic vectors. Properties of characteristic roots and vectors.
Cayley- Hamilton theorem. Quadratic forms, positive definite, positive semi-definite, negative definite,
and negative semi-definite matrices, and their simple properties.




                                                                                          Page | 56
                                                                      JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
Statistics (Sections 4 - 12)
Section 4; Descriptive Statistics and Probability:
Descriptive Statistics: Concepts of sample and population. Different types of data. Tabular and
graphical representation of data. Measures of central tendency (arithmetic mean, geometric mean,
harmonic mean, median, mode). Measures of dispersion (range, inter quartile range, mean deviation
about a point, standard deviation, variance, coefficient of variation). Moments, central moments,
skewness and kurtosis. Bivariate data: Scatter diagram, covariance, simple, partial and multiple
correlations (3 variables only), Spearman’s rank correlation.
Probability: Random Experiments. Sample Space and Algebra of Events (Event space). Relative
frequency and Axiomatic definitions of probability. Properties of probability function. Addition theorem
of probability function (inclusion-exclusion principle). Geometric probability. Boole's and Bonferroni's
inequalities. Conditional probability and Multiplication rule. Theorem of total probability and Bayes’
theorem. Pairwise and mutual independence of events.

Section 5; Univariate Distributions: Definition of random variables. Cumulative distribution
function (c.d.f.) of a random variable. Discrete and Continuous random variables. Probability mass
function (p.m.f.) and Probability density function (p.d.f.) of a random variable. Distribution (c.d.f., p.m.f.,
p.d.f.) of a function of a random variable using transformation of variable and Jacobian method.
Mathematical expectation and moments. Mean, Median, Mode, Variance, Standard deviation,
Coefficient of variation, Quantiles, Quartiles, and measures of Skewness and Kurtosis of a probability
distribution. Moment generating function (m.g.f.), its properties and uniqueness. Markov and
Chebyshev inequalities, and their applications.
Degenerate, Bernoulli, Binomial, Negative binomial, Geometric, Poisson, Hypergeometric, Uniform,
Exponential, Double exponential, Gamma, Beta (of first and second type), Normal and Cauchy
distributions, their properties, interrelations, and limiting (approximation) cases.

Section 6; Multivariate Distributions: Definition of random vectors. Joint and marginal c.d.f.s of
a random vector. Discrete and continuous type random vectors. Joint and marginal p.m.f., joint and
marginal p.d.f.. Conditional c.d.f., conditional p.m.f. and conditional p.d.f. Independence of random
variables. Distribution of functions of random vectors using transformation of variables and Jacobian
method. Mathematical expectation of functions of random vectors. Joint moments, Covariance and
Correlation. Joint moment generating function and its properties. Uniqueness of joint m.g.f. and its
applications. Conditional moments, conditional expectations and conditional variance. Additive
properties of Binomial, Poisson, Negative Binomial, Gamma and Normal Distributions using their m.g.f.
Multinomial distribution as a generalization of binomial distribution and its properties (moments,
correlation, marginal distributions, additive property). Bivariate normal distribution, its marginal and
conditional distributions and related properties.

Section 7; Limit Theorems: Convergence in probability, convergence in mean square, almost sure
convergence, convergence in distribution, and their inter-relations. Weak law of large numbers, Strong
law of large numbers, and Central Limit Theorem (i.i.d. and finite variance case).

Section 8; Sampling Distributions: Definitions of random sample, parameter and statistic.
Sampling distribution of a statistic. Order Statistics: Definition and distribution of the rth order statistic
(d.f. and p.d.f. for i.i.d. case for continuous distributions). Distribution (c.d.f., p.m.f., p.d.f.) of smallest
and largest order statistics (i.i.d. case for discrete as well as continuous distributions). Central Chi-
square distribution (𝜒2) : Definition and derivation of p.d.f. of central 𝜒 2 distribution with n degrees of
freedom (d.f.) using m.g.f. Properties of central 𝜒2 distribution, additive property and limiting form of
central 𝜒2 distribution. Central t - distribution: Definition and derivation of p.d.f. of Central t -distribution
with n d.f., Properties and limiting form of central t -distribution. Central F -distribution: Definition and
derivation of p.d.f. of Central F - distribution with (m, n) d.f. Properties of Central F -distribution,
distribution of the reciprocal of F - distribution. Relationship between t, F and 𝜒2 distributions.




                                                                                               Page | 57
                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

Section 9; Estimation: Unbiasedness. Sufficiency of a statistic. Factorization theorem. Complete
statistic. Consistency and relative efficiency of estimators. Uniformly Minimum variance unbiased
estimator (UMVUE). Rao-Blackwell and Lehmann-Scheffe theorems and their applications. Cramer-
Rao inequality and UMVUEs. Methods of Estimation: Method of moments, method of maximum
likelihood, invariance of maximum likelihood estimators. Least squares estimation and its applications
in simple linear regression models. Confidence intervals and confidence coefficient. Confidence
intervals for the parameters of univariate normal, two independent normal, and exponential
distributions.

Section 10; Testing of Hypotheses: Null and alternative hypotheses (simple and composite),
Type-I and Type-II errors. Critical region. Level of significance, size and power of a test, p-value. Most
powerful critical regions and most powerful (MP) tests. Uniformly most powerful (UMP) tests. Neyman-
Pearson Lemma (without proof) and its applications to construction of MP and UMP tests for
parameter of one-parameter parametric families. Likelihood ratio tests for parameters of univariate
normal distribution.

Section 11; Nonparametric Methods: Tests of randomness based on total number of runs.
Empirical distribution function. Kolmogorov-Smirnov one sample test. One and two sample sign tests.
Mann-Whitney test.

Section 12; Stochastic Processes: Discrete time Markov chain: transition probability matrix,
higher order transition probabilities, Markov chain as a graph, Chapman-Kolmogorov equation,
classification of states and chains, stability of Markov chain (stationary and limiting distributions).
Poisson process and its properties, interarrival and waiting times.




                                                                                         Page | 58
                                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


                                             JAM 2027
                                         Physics (PH)



Section 1: Mathematical Methods
Calculus of single and multiple variables, Partial derivatives, Jacobian, imperfect and perfect
differentials, Taylor expansion, Fourier series, Vector algebra, Vector Calculus, Multiple integrals,
Divergence theorem, Green’s theorem, Stokes’ theorem. First order equations and linear second-
order differential equations with constant coefficients. Matrices and determinants, Complex numbers,
Error analysis of Experimental Data: Significant digits and rounding of numbers, Types of errors,
mean, median, standard deviation

Section 2: Mechanics and General Properties of Matter
Newton’s laws of motion and applications, Velocity and acceleration in Cartesian, polar and cylindrical
coordinate systems, uniformly rotating frame, centrifugal and Coriolis forces, Motion under a central
force, Kepler’s laws, Gravitational Law and field, Conservative and nonconservative forces. System
of particles, Center of mass, equation of motion of the CM, conservation of linear and angular
momentum, conservation of energy, variable mass systems. Elastic and inelastic collisions. Rigid body
motion, fixed axis rotations, rotation and translation, moments of Inertia and products of Inertia, parallel
and perpendicular axes theorem, Principal moments and axes. Kinematics of moving fluids, equation
of continuity, Euler’s equation, Bernoulli’s theorem.

Section 3: Oscillations, Waves and Optics
Differential equation for simple harmonic oscillator and its general solution. Superposition of two or
more simple harmonic oscillators. Lissajous figures. Damped and forced oscillations, resonance.
Wave equation, traveling and standing waves in one dimension. Energy density and energy
transmission in waves. Group velocity and phase velocity. Sound waves in media. Doppler Effect.
Fermat’s Principle. General theory of image formation. Interference of light, optical path retardation.
Fraunhofer diffraction. Rayleigh criterion and resolving power. Diffraction gratings. Polarization: linear,
circular and elliptic polarization. Double refraction and optical rotation.

Section 4: Electricity and Magnetism
Coulomb’s law, Electric field and potential, Gauss’s law, Electrostatic boundary conditions, Solution
of Laplace’s equation for simple cases – upto two dimensions

Conductors, capacitors, Linear dielectrics, dielectric polarization, volume and surface bound charges,
electrostatic energy. Biot-Savart law, Ampere’s law, Faraday’s law of electromagnetic induction, Self
and mutual inductance. Alternating currents. Simple DC and AC circuits with R, L and C components.
Displacement current, Maxwell’s equations and plane electromagnetic waves, Poynting vector,
Poynting’s theorem, Energy of Electromagnetic fields. Reflection and refraction at a dielectric
interface, transmission and reflection coefficients (normal incidence only). Lorentz Force and motion
of charged particles in electric and magnetic fields.




                                                                                           Page | 59
                                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure



Section 5: Kinetic Theory, Thermodynamics
Elements of Kinetic theory of gases. Velocity distribution and Equipartition of energy. Specific heat of
Mono-, di- and tri-atomic gases. Ideal gas, van-der-Waals gas and equation of state. Mean free path.
Laws of thermodynamics. Zeroth law and concept of thermal equilibrium. First law and its
consequences. Isothermal and adiabatic processes. Reversible, irreversible and quasi-static
processes. Second law and entropy. Carnot cycle. Maxwell’s thermodynamic relations and simple
applications. Thermodynamic potentials and their applications. Phase transitions and Clausius-
Clapeyron equation. Ideas of ensembles, Maxwell-Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein
distributions.


Section 6: Modern Physics
Inertial frames and Galilean invariance. Postulates of special relativity. Lorentz transformations. Length
contraction, time dilation. Relativistic velocity addition theorem, mass energy equivalence. Blackbody
radiation, photoelectric effect, Compton effect, Bohr’s atomic model, X-rays. Wave-particle duality,
Uncertainty principle, the superposition principle, calculation of expectation values, Schrödinger
equation and its solution for one, two and three dimensional boxes. Solution of Schrödinger equation
for the one dimensional harmonic oscillator. Reflection and transmission at a step potential, Pauli
exclusion principle. Structure of atomic nucleus, mass and binding energy. Radioactivity and its
applications. Laws of radioactive decay.


Section 7: Solid State Physics, Devices and Electronics
Crystal structure, Bravais lattices and basis. Miller indices. X-ray diffraction and Bragg's law; Intrinsic
and extrinsic semiconductors, variation of resistivity with temperature. Fermi level. p-n junction diode,
I-V characteristics, Zener diode and its applications, BJT: characteristics in CB, CE, CC modes. Single
stage amplifier, two stage R-C coupled amplifiers. Simple Oscillators: Barkhausen condition, sinusoidal
oscillators. OP-AMP and applications: Inverting and non-inverting amplifier. Boolean algebra: Binary
number systems; conversion from one system to another system; binary addition and subtraction. Logic
Gates AND, OR, NOT, NAND, NOR exclusive OR; Truth tables; combination of gates; de Morgan’s
theorem.




                                                                                         Page | 60
                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                                                 B
ANNEXURE II

MEQS AND SEAT MATRIX∗

* MEQs and Seat Matrix are subject to change as per decision of Admitting Institutes.




                                                                            Page | 61
                                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                         Seats
                                          Essential subjects in
  Institute     Program (Code)         Bachelor’s Degree along with                                               Total
                                           minimum duration                              OBC-
                                                                          GEN     EWS              SC        ST
                                                                                         NCL

              M.Sc. in Biotechnology
IIT Bombay                                  Any Branch/Subject.           13+1*    4      9       4+1*       3     35
                    (1204) @
                                        Any one of Biology,
                                     Biotechnology, Chemistry,
                M.Sc. ‐ PhD Dual    Mathematics and Physics for
                   Degree in      two years/- four semesters, and
IIT Bombay       Environmental       any one of the other four             1       1      1         1        0     4
                  Science and         subjects for at least one
               Engineering (1213)     year/two semesters and
                                    Mathematics for at least one
                                             semester.
               M.Sc. in Biological     A Three or Four year Bachelor’s
  IIT Delhi                                                               4+1*     1      2         2        1     11
                Sciences (1305)        degree in any branch of STEM.

               M.Sc. in Molecular      A 3 or 4 years Bachelor’s degree
IIT Dharwad                                                                6       2      4         2        1    15**
                Medicine (3304)            in any branch of STEM.

              M.Sc. in Biotechnology
 IIT Indore                                 Any Branch/Subject.           5+1*     1      4         2        2     15
                      (2204)
               M.Sc. in Bioscience
                                          Bachelor’s Degree in any
IIT Roorkee    and Bioengineering                                          14     3+1*    9       4+1*       3     35
                                             Branch/Subject.
                     (1806)


   * Indicates seats reserved for PwD Candidates (Person with Benchmark Disability).

   @ The department may revise (a) the curriculum, (b) modes of assessment, and (c) duration of

the academic program by taking into consideration the nature and extent of disability of each PwD

student. The Department will seek approval of each such revision by the Senate of the Institute. The

Department, and thereby the Institute, reserves the right to implement such duly approved revisions,

along with Reasonable Adjustments, specific to each PwD student. PwD - Person with Benchmark

Disability.




                                                                                                 Page | 62
                                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
 B. Annexure II
 MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                 Essential subjects in                     Seats
   Institute        Program (Code)          Bachelor’s Degree along with                   OBC-                     Total
                                                                             GEN EWS                 SC      ST
                                                  minimum duration                         NCL
                  M.Sc. in Chemistry        Chemistry for three years/six
   IIT Bhilai                                                                9+1*     3      6      3+1*     2       25
                        (2801)                         semesters.
                                            Chemistry for three years/six
     IIT     Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in
                                             semesters and at least two       10           6+1*       4      2
Bhubaneshwar Chemistry (1901)                                                         2                              25
                                                Mathematics subjects.
                                            Chemistry for three years/six
                  M.Sc. in Chemistry
  IIT Bombay                                semesters and Mathematics        21+2* 6         15      8+1*     4
                        (1205)
                                            for one year/two semesters.                                              57
                                                B.Sc. or equivalent of
                                                 minimum three years
                                              duration, with any one of
                   M.Sc.‐Ph.D. Dual
                                               Chemistry, Mathematics
                   Degree in Energy
  IIT Bombay                                     and Physics for two          4       1     2         1      1       9
                     Science and
                                              years/four semesters and
                  Engineering (1212)
                                            any one of the remaining two
                                               subjects for at least one
                                                 year/two semesters.
                                                  Any one of Biology,
                                             Biotechnology, Chemistry,
                  M.Sc.‐Ph.D. Dual           Mathematics and Physics
                      Degree in                   for two years/four
  IIT Bombay        Environmental            semesters, and any one of        2       0     1         1      1       5
                     Science and             the other four sub- jects for
                  Engineering (1213)             at least one year/two
                                            semesters and Mathematics
                                              for at least one semester.
                  M.Sc. in Chemistry        Chemistry for three years/six
   IIT Delhi                                                                 27+1* 7       17+1*      9      5+1*    68
                        (1301)                         semesters.
                                                 A Three or Four year
                   M.Sc. in Biological
   IIT Delhi                                   Bachelor’s degree in any       3       1     3         1      1       9
                   Sciences (1305)
                                                   branch of STEM.
  IIT (ISM)       M.Sc. in Chemistry        Chemistry for three years/six
                                                                             26+1* 6       17+1*     10      5       66
  Dhanbad               (2601)                         semesters.
                  M.Sc. in Chemistry          Bachelor’s Degree in any of
 IIT Dharwad                                                                  6       2     4         2      1       15
                        (3301)                  Science or Engineering
    IIT
                M.Sc. in Chemistry (2001)          No Restrictions.          17+1*    5    11+1*    6+1*     3       45
Gandhinagar
                                             Chemistry for three years/six
                                            semesters. Mathematics as an
 IIT Guwahati   M.Sc. in Chemistry (1401)                                     24+1* 5+1*    16      8+1*     4       60
                                            essential subject till the (10+2)
                                                         level
                                          Bachelor’s degree with Chemistry
    IIT                                   for three years/six semesters and
                M.Sc. in Chemistry (2101)                                      12 2+1*     7+1*       5      2       30
 Hyderabad                                   Mathematics for at least one
                                                  year/two semesters.
                                             Chemistry for three years/six
  IIT Indore    M.Sc. in Chemistry (2201)                                      12    3      8       4+1* 2+1*        30
                                                      semesters.




                                                                                                 Page | 63
                                                                                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
                                     Essential subjects in Bachelor’s Degree
              Program (Code)                                                                      Seats
                                         along with minimum duration
Institute                                                                                                            Total
                                                                                                     OBC-
                                                                                     GEN     EWS          SC ST
                                                                                                     NCL
   IIT       M.Sc. in Chemistry
                                      Chemistry for three years/six semesters.         8      2        6    2+1* 1    20
 Jammu             (3201)
   IIT       M.Sc. in Chemistry       Chemistry for three years/six semesters.
                                                                                      16     3+1* 10+1* 6        3    40
 Jodhpur           (2401)           Mathematics in at least one semester of B.Sc.
                                    Bachelors’ degree (B.Sc./ B.S./ B.Sc. (Hons.))
             M.Sc. in Chemistry
IIT Kanpur                              with Chemistry for three years/six           19+1*    5      12+1* 6+1* 4     49
                   (1501)
                                                     semesters.
            M.Sc.‐ PhD Dual
                                    Bachelor’s Degree (B.Sc./ B.S./B.Sc. (Hons.))
IIT Kanpur Degree in Chemistry                                                       7+1*     2        5     3   2    20
                                    with Chemistry for three years/six semesters.
                 (1507)
                                   B.Sc./B.S. or equivalent degree with minimum of
             Integrated Ph.D. in        60% marks and of minimum three years
IIT Kanpur   Sustainable Energy      duration with Physics or Chemistry for at least   2      1        1     1   0    5
             Engineering (1508)     two years/four semesters and Mathematics for
                                            at least one year/ two semesters.
      IIT    Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in   B.Sc./B.S. degree with at least six Chemistry
                                                                                     22+1*    6      14+1* 8+1* 4     57
Kharagpur      Chemistry (1601)         subjects for six semesters / three years.
                                     Bachelor of Science in Physics or Bachelor of
                                         Science in Chemistry (with Physics as
                                        elective/additional subjects), Bachelor of
             Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in Science in Nuclear Medicine Technology from
      IIT
               Nuclear Medicine       recognized university with minimum of 60%        4      1        3     1   1    10
Kharagpur
                    (1607)                      marks in Bachelor degree.
                                     B.Sc./BS degree with Chemistry as one of the
                                       subjects along with Mathematics/Physics/
                                             Biology as additional subjects.
                                   B.Sc./B.S. degree with Chemistry for at least six
      IIT     M.Sc. in Chemistry
                                   semesters/three years, along with mathematics 25+2*       6+1* 17+1* 9+1* 5        67
   Madras           (1701)
                                               for two semesters/one year.
              M.Sc. in Chemistry
 IIT Mandi                              Chemistry for three years/six semesters.     11+1*    3        8     4 2+1* 30
                    (3101)
      IIT     M.Sc. in Chemistry
                                            Bachelor’s degree in Chemistry.            8      2        6    2+1* 2    21
 Palakkad           (2901)
              M.Sc. in Chemistry
 IIT Patna                              Chemistry for three years/six semesters.     10+1*    3      5+1*    3   2    25
                    (2501)
            Integrated M.Sc.- PhD
                Dual Degree in
 IIT Patna                             Chemistry for three years /six semesters.       2      0        2     1   0    5
            Chemistry (2504) (10-
               12 semesters) #
      IIT     M.Sc. in Chemistry      Chemistry for three years/six semesters. No
                                                                                      18     3+1*     12 6+1* 3       44
  Roorkee           (1802)                restrictions for engineering degrees.
                                     Bachelor’s degree (Science) in a relevant field
      IIT      M.Sc. in Polymer
                                     (e.g., Chemistry, Polymer Science, Chemical       6     1+1*      4     2   1    15
  Roorkee       Science (1807)
                                            Engineering, or Material Science)
              M.Sc. in Chemistry
 IIT Ropar                              Chemistry for three years/six semesters.      10      3        7     3 1+1* 25
                    (2302)
      IIT     M.Sc. in Chemistry
                                        Chemistry for three years/six semesters.     10+1*    2        6     4   2    25
   Tirupati         (3002)
                                   B.Sc./B.E. or an equivalent degree in Chemistry
 IIT (BHU) M.Sc. in Chemistry
                                    for three years/six semesters and mathematics 9+1*        2      6+1*    4   2    25
 Varanasi           (2701)
                                                        in Class-12


  * Indicates seats reserved for PwD Candidates (Person with Benchmark Disability).

  ** 5% reservation for PwD will be made as per rules across various categories.




                                                                                                    Page | 64
                                                                            JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                   Seats
                                   Essential subjects in
 Institute    Program (Code)       Bachelor’s Degree along with                                           Total
                                   minimum duration                                OBC-
                                                                     GEN     EWS   NCL       SC      ST


                                   B.A./B.Sc./B.Com./B.Stat. /
                                   B.Math./B.Tech/B.E. or
IIT Delhi     M.Sc. in Economics   equivalent with minimum of        5+1*     2      4       2       1     15
              (1304)               three years of education after
                                   completing higher secondary
                                   schooling (10+2) or equivalent.


                                   A Bachelors’ Degree with a
              M.Sc. in Economics   minimum of three years of ed-
IIT Kanpur                         ucation after completing higher   9+1*     2      7       3       2     24
              (1506)
                                   secondary schooling (10+2) or
                                   equivalent.


                                   B.Sc. (Economics)/B.A. (Eco-
                                   nomics)/B.Sc. (Statistics)/
              M.Sc. in Economics   BCA and B.Sc./B.A./B.Com.
IIT Roorkee                                                           5       2      4       1       1     13
              (1803)               with Mathematics as one of the
                                   subjects. No restrictions for
                                   engineering degrees.




                                                                                         Page | 65
                                                                              JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                            Seats
                                        Essential subjects in Bachelor’s
                  Program (Code)                                                                                Total
    Institute                             Degree along with minimum
                                                                                            OBC-
                                                    duration             GEN          EWS           SC   ST
                                                                                            NCL

                Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in
      IIT         Atmosphere and         Bachelor of Sciences degree in
                                                                               5       1     3       2    1      12
 Bhubaneshwar     Ocean Sciences                any discipline.
                       (1905)
                                        Bachelor’s degree from a recognized
      IIT       Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in      university with Geology/Earth
                                                                            9+1*       2     7       4   1+1*    25
 Bhubaneshwar     Geology (1904)         Sciences as a Major/honours/Core
                                              discipline (or equivalent)

                                          Geology for three years/six
                                        semesters and any two subjects
                  M.Sc. in Applied       among Mathematics, Physics,
   IIT Bombay                                                                 15       4    9+1*     6    3      38
                  Geology (1201)           Chemistry and Biological
                                           Science for one year/two
                                                 semesters.

                                          BS (4 years)/B.Sc. degree (03
                                         years) with Geology as a subject
                                         for four years/eight semesters or
                                        three years/six semesters and any
                                         two subject among Mathematics,
                                          Physics, Chemistry, Computer
                                               Science, Environment
                   M.Sc.(Tech.) in
    IIT (ISM)                             Science/Environmental Study,
                  Applied Geology                                             26+1*    6    17+1*   10    5      66
    Dhanbad                                      Biology, Statistics.
                       (2604)
                                        a) PH Candidates with color
                                        blindness and/or Uni-ocularity are
                                        not eligible.
                                        b) PwD candidates should be able to
                                        walk in the field without assistance/
                                        escort (on-road and/or off-road
                                        conditions) to do fieldwork.


                                         B.Sc./B.S. degree including Ge-
                                         ology subjects for 6 semesters /
                                           3 years, and any one of the
                                             following combinations.
      IIT       Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in         2 Physics subjects + 2
                                                                             14+1*     4    9+1*     6    3      38
   Kharagpur      Geology (1602)              Mathematics subjects.
                                             2 Physics subjects + 2
                                               Chemistry subjects.
                                           2 Chemistry subjects + 2
                                              Mathematics subjects.




                                                                                             Page | 66
                                                                        JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
                                    B.Sc. degree together with either
                                      of the following, with minimum
                                     number of subjects in respective
                                                  domains.
                                    Geology subjects for 6 semesters
   IIT        Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in     or 3 years, and 2 Physics
                                                                        6      2      4      2    0+1*    15
Kharagpur     Geophysics (1605)          subjects + 2 Mathematics
                                                  subjects.
                                    Physics subjects for 6 semesters
                                     or 3 years, and 2 Mathematics
                                                  subjects.
                                       Geology for three years/six
                                     semesters and any two subjects
                                      among Mathematics, Physics,
                M.Sc. in Applied                                        8    1+1*     5      3      1     19
IIT Roorkee                              Chemistry and Biological
                Geology (1801)
                                       Science. No restrictions for
                                           engineering degrees.




                                                                                     Page | 67
                                                                             JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                          Seats
                                      Essential subjects in
    Institute   Program (Code)        Bachelor’s Degree along with                                             Total
                                      minimum duration                                    OBC-
                                                                         GEN      EWS             SC      ST
                                                                                          NCL


                M.Sc.            in
                                      Mathematics for at least two
 IIT Bhilai     Mathematics       &                                      10           2   6+1*     4      2     25
                                      years/four semesters.
                Computing (2802)


              Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D.      Mathematics/ Statistics as a
 IIT          in Mathematics          subject for at least two years/-   9+1*         3     6      3      2     24
 Bhubaneshwar (1902)                  four semesters.

              Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D.
 IIT          in Atmosphere and       Bachelor’s degree in any
 Bhubaneshwar Ocean                   discipline                             2        0     1      1      0     4
                        Sciences
              (1905)

                M.Sc. in
                                      No Restrictions.                   14+1*    4       9+1*     6      3     38
 IIT Bombay     Mathematics (1206)

                                      B.Sc.    or   equivalent    of
                                      minimum       three      years
                                      duration, with any one of
                M.Sc.‐Ph.D Dual       Chemistry, Mathematics and
                                                                         1            0     2      1      0     4
                Degree in Energy      Physics for two years/four
                Science and           semesters and any one of the
 IIT Bombay
                Engineering (1212)    remaining two subjects for at
                                      least one year/two semesters.

                                      Any     one     of    Biology,
                                      Biotechnology,     Chemistry,
                                      Mathematics and Physics for
                M.Sc.‐Ph.D.Dual       two years/four semesters, and
                Degree in             any one of the other four              1*       0     0      0      0     1
                Environmental         subjects for at least one
 IIT Bombay     Science and           year/two    semesters     and
                Engineering (1213)    Mathematics for at least one
                                      semester.

                M.Sc. in Operations                                          3        1     2      1      0     7
 IIT Bombay                           No Restrictions.
                Research (1214)

                                      B.Sc./B.S.          degrees,
                M.Sc. in              Mathematics for at least two
 IIT Delhi                            years/four semesters.     No       27+1*        7   17+1*   10+1*   4     68
                Mathematics (1302)
                                      restrictions for engineering
                                      degrees.


                                                                                           Page | 68
                                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗

                                       Essential subjects in                            Seats
               Program (Code)          Bachelor’s Degree along with
Institute
                                       minimum duration                                 OBC-
                                                                         GEN     EWS    NCL      SC     ST    Total

               M.Sc.            in
                                       Mathematics for at least two
IIT (ISM)      Mathematics       &
                                       years/four semesters.             21+1*    6      15     7+1*    4     55
Dhanbad        Computing (2602)

                                       Mathematics for at least two
                                       years/four  semesters      in
               M.Sc. in                B.Sc./BS degree. B.Tech./BE
                                                                          6        2      4      2      1     15**
IIT            Mathematics             degree in any branch of
Dharwad        (3302)                  engineering     will      be
                                       considered.

               M.Sc. in
IIT                                                                      17+1*    5      12      6     3+1*
               Mathematics (2002)      No Restrictions.                                                       45
Gandhinagar

               M.Sc. in                Mathematics for at least two
                                                                           5      0       1      0      0      6
IIT Goa        Mathematics (3401)      years/four semesters.

               M.Sc.            in
                                       Mathematics for at least two
               Mathematics       &                                         12    2+1*     8     4+1*    2     30
IIT Guwahati                           years/four semesters.
               Computing (1402)
               M.Sc. in                Mathematics for at least two
                                                                         11+1*    3      7+1*    5      2     30
IIT Guwahati   Mathematics (1404)      years/four semesters.

               M.Sc.            in     Mathematics for at least two
               Mathematics       /     years/four semesters.     No
                                                                          8       2       5     2+1*     2    20
IIT            Mathematics      &      restrictions for engineering
Hyderabad      Computing (2102)        degrees.

               M.Sc. in                Mathematics for at least two
                                                                           9      2     5+1*     2      1
IIT Indore     Mathematics (2203)      years/four semesters.                                                  20

               M.Sc. in                Mathematics for at least two
                                                                         15+1*    5     9+1*      6     3     40
IIT Jodhpur    Mathematics (2402)      years/four semesters.
               M.Sc. in
                                                                         19+1*    5     12+1*   6+1*    4     49
IIT Kanpur     Mathematics (1502)      No Restrictions.
                                       Mathematics/Statistics sub-
               Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D. in
IIT                                    jects for six semesters / three    15      4      9+1*   5+1*    3     38
               Mathematics (1603)
Kharagpur                              years.

               M.Sc. in                Mathematics for at least two
                                                                         19+1*    5       13     7     3+1*   49
IIT Madras     Mathematics (1702)      years/four semesters.

               M.Sc. in Applied        Mathematics for at least two
IIT Mandi                                                                11+1*    3       8     4+1*    2     30
               Mathematics (3102)      years/four semesters.




                                                                                         Page | 69
                                                                               JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗


                                                                                            Seats
                                           Essential subjects in
  Institute       Program (Code)           Bachelor’s Degree along with
                                           minimum duration                                 OBC-                   Total
                                                                              GEN     EWS            SC      ST
                                                                                            NCL


                                           Bachelor’s degree (with at
                  M.Sc. in                 least 3 Mathematics courses
                                                                               9      2       5       3     1+1*    21
  IIT Palakkad    Mathematics              as a part of the Bachelor’s
                  (2902)                   degree program)


                  M.Sc. in                 Mathematics for at least two
  IIT Patna                                                                   10+1*   2       7      4       1      25
                  Mathematics (2502)       years/four semesters.


                  Integrated   M.Sc.-
                  PhD Dual Degree in
  IIT Patna                                Mathematics for at least two        2      1       1      0       1      5
                  Mathematics (2505)
                                           years / four semesters.
                  (10-12 semesters) #


                                           B.Sc. (Economics)/B.A. (Eco-
                                           nomics)/B.Sc.      (Statistics)/
                                           BCA and B.Sc./B.A./B.Com.
  IIT Roorkee     M.Sc. in Economics                                           4      1     2+1*     2       1      11
                                           with Mathematics as one of
                  (1803)
                                           the subjects. No restrictions
                                           for engineering degrees.


                                           Mathematics for at least two
                  M.Sc. in                 years/four semesters.     No
  IIT Roorkee                                                                 15+1*    4    10+1*    6        3     40
                  Mathematics              restrictions for engineering
                  (1804)                   degrees.


                  M.Sc. in                 Mathematics for at least two
                                                                               10      3      6     3+1*     2      25
  IIT Ropar       Mathematics (2301)       years/four semesters.


                  M.Sc.               in
  IIT Tirupati    Mathematics         &                                        5       2      4      3       1      15
                                           No Restrictions.
                  Statistics (3001)

                                           Bachelor’s degree with at least
                  M.Sc. in
                                           three (3) mathematics                4     1       4      1       0      10
  IIT Tirupati    Mathematics (3004)
                                           courses.




     # For migration to PhD with fellowship after 4 semesters of M.Sc., CPI ≥ 8.0 is to be fulfilled. PhD

     regulation will become applicable on change of status.




                                                                                             Page | 70
                                                                                    JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                              Seats
                                         Essential subjects in
 Institute     Program (Code)            Bachelor’s Degree along with                                                 Total
                                         minimum duration                                     OBC-
                                                                            GEN        EWS               SC      ST
                                                                                              NCL


               M.Sc. in Statistics
IIT Bombay                               No Restrictions.                                     12+1*     7        4
               (1203)                                                       18+1*        5                             48


               M.Sc. in Operations
                                         No Restrictions.                   3                               1*   1     8
IIT Bombay     Research (1214)                                                           1      2


               M.Sc. in Statistics
IIT Kanpur                               No Restrictions.
               (1504)                                                       24+1*        6    16+1* 8+1*         5     62

                                         A Bachelors’ Degree with a
                                         minimum of three years of
               M.Sc. in Economics
IIT Kanpur                               education   after   completing         6        2    3+1*          3    1     16
               (1506)
                                         higher secondary schooling
                                         (10+2) or equivalent.


                                         B.Sc. (Economics)/B.A. (Eco-
                                         nomics)/B.Sc.      (Statistics)/
               M.Sc. in Economics        BCA and B.Sc./B.A./B.Com.
IIT Roorkee                                                                     2        0      1           1    0     4
               (1803)                    with Mathematics as one of the
                                         subjects. No restrictions for
                                         engineering degrees.

               M.Sc. in
IIT Tirupati   Mathematics           &   No Restrictions.                       2        0      2           1    0     5
               Statistics (3001)

                                         B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics     10+1*        2      7           3    2
IIT Bhilai     M.Sc.    in    Physics    for at least two years/four                                                   25
               (2803)                    semesters and Mathematics
                                         for at least one year/two
                                         semesters. No restrictions for
                                         engineering degrees.




                                                                                                    Page | 71
                                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗




                                                                                       Seats
                                      Essential subjects in
                 Program (Code)       Bachelor’s Degree along with                                              Total
    Institute                         minimum duration
                                                                                       OBC-
                                                                       GEN      EWS    NCL        SC     ST


                                      B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics   9+1*       3        8     4        2
  IIT          Joint M.Sc. ‐ PhD in   for at least two years/four
  Bhubaneshwar Physics (1903)         semesters and at least two                                                27
                                      Mathematics subjects.      No
                                      restrictions for Engineering
                                      degrees.

                                      Bachelor’s degree in any
               Joint M.Sc.‐ PhD in    discipline.                          3      1*   2
  IIT          Atmosphere      and
  Bhubaneshwar Ocean      Sciences                                                                   1    1      8
               (1905)


                                      Any     two    of    Physics,    8          2    4+1*          3    2     20
                 M.Sc. in Applied     Mathematics              and
  IIT Bombay     Geophysics (1202)    Mathematical Physics for Two
                                      years/four semesters


                                                                                                 9       4+1*
                                      B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                      for at least two years/four
                                      semesters and Mathematics
                 M.Sc. in Physics     for at least one year/two
  IIT Bombay     (1207)               semesters. No restrictions for   23+1*      6    15+1*                    60
                                      engineering degrees.

                                                                           4      1        2         1    1*     9
                                      B.Sc.    or   equivalent    of
                                      minimum       three      years
                 M.Sc.‐ Ph.D Dual     duration, with any one of
                 Degree in Energy     Chemistry, Mathematics and
  IIT Bombay     Science and          Physics for two years/four
                 Engineering (1212)   semesters and any one of the
                                      remaining two subjects for at
                                      least one year/two semesters.




                                                                                           Page | 72
                                                                                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
 B. Annexure II
 MEQs and Seat Matrix∗


                                                                                                 Seats

                                        Essential subjects in
Institute         Program (Code)        Bachelor’s Degree along with                             OBC-                   Total
                                        minimum duration                         GEN     EWS     NCL     SC     ST

                                        Any     one     of    Biology,
                                        Biotechnology,     Chemistry,
                                        Mathematics and Physics for
                  M.Sc.‐ PhD Dual       two years/four semesters, and
                  Degree in             any one of the other four                 1          0     1      0         0    2
IIT Bombay        Environmental         subjects for at least one
                  Science and           year/two    semesters     and
                  Engineering (1213)    Mathematics for at least one
                                        semester.

                                        B.Sc./B.S.   degree, Physics
                                        for at least two years/four
                                        semesters and Mathematics                27+1*       7   17+1* 10+1*        4    68
                  M.Sc. in Physics      for at least one year/two
IIT Delhi         (1303)                semesters. No restrictions for
                                        engineering degrees.

IIT (ISM)         M.Sc. in Physics      Physics and Mathematics for              26+1*       6   17+1*    10    5        66
Dhanbad           (2603)                at least one semester.

                                         B.Sc. Degree with physics for
                                         three years/six semesters/ B.Sc.
                                         Or B.S. degree with Physics for
                                         four years/eight semesters, with
                                         Mathematics           for       two
                                         semesters/one year and any one
                  M.Sc (Tech.) in
IIT (ISM)                                subject      among        Chemistry,
                  Applied Geophysics     Electronics, Statistics, Geology,
Dhanbad           (2605)                 Environmental              Science/
                                         Environmental Study, Computer            22         6    15     7+1*       4    55
                                         Science,        relevant       “Skill
                                         Enhancement” subjects as per
                                         NEP.
                                        (a) PH Candidates with color
                                        blindness and/or Uni-ocularity are
                                        not eligible.
                                        (b) PwD candidates should be able
                                        to walk in the field without
                                        assistance/ escort (on-road and/or
                                        off-road conditions) to do fieldwork.

                                        Bachelor’s degree in Science
                                        with at least 2 years (4
                                        semesters) of study in Physics,
                  M.Sc. in Physics      and 1 year (2 semesters) of
                                                                                  6      2         4      2         1   15**
IIT Dharwad       (3303)                study     in     Mathematics.
                                        B.Tech./BE degree in any
                                        branch of engineering will be
                                        considered.


IIT               M.Sc.    in Physics
                                        No Restrictions.                         17+1*       5    12      7     2+1*     45
Gandhinagar       (2003)

                                                                                                  Page | 73
                                                                          JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗


                                                                                          Seats
                                    Essential subjects in
  Institute      Program (Code)     Bachelor’s Degree along with
                                    minimum duration                                      OBC-                   Total
                                                                          GEN      EWS            SC      ST
                                                                                          NCL

                                    B.Sc/BS degree with Physics or
                                    Physics Major. Minimum Three
                 M.Sc. in Physics
  IIT Goa                           years or six semesters Physics.       5         0       1      0       0      6
                 (3402)
                                    Minimum two years or four
                                    semesters Maths courses.

                                    B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                    for at least two years/four
                 M.Sc. in           semesters and Mathematics for
  IIT Guwahati                                                            23+1*      6      16    8+1*    4+1*    60
                 Physics (1403)     at    least    one    year/two
                                    semesters. No restrictions for
                                    engineering degrees.
                                    B.Sc./B.S. degree, physics for
                                    at     least     two     years/four
  IIT            M.Sc. in           semesters and Mathematics for
                                                                              12    3       8         5   1+1*    30
  Hyderabad      Physics (2103)     at      least     one     year/two
                                    semesters. No restrictions for
                                    engineering degrees.
                                    B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                    for at least two years/four
                 M.Sc. in           semesters and Mathematics for
  IIT Indore                                                                  12   2+1*     8         5    2      30
                 Physics (2202)     at      least     one     year/two
                                    semesters. No restrictions for
                                    engineering degrees.
                                    B. Sc in Physics / Mathematics /
                                    Statistics    /    Electronics    /
                                    Computer          Science,       Or
                 M.Sc. in           Bachelor’s      of    Engineering/
  IIT Indore     Astronomy          Technology in any branch AND               6    2       4      2       1      15
                 (2205)             Courses in Physics for at least 6
                                    credits or 2 semesters and
                                    Mathematics for at least 6
                                    credits or two semesters.

                                    B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                    for at least two years/four
                 M.Sc. in           semesters and Mathematics for
  IIT Jammu                                                                   8     2       6     2+1*     1      20
                 Physics (3202)     at    least    one    year/two
                                    semesters. No restrictions for
                                    engineering degrees.

                                    B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                    for at least two years/four
                 M.Sc. in           semesters and Mathematics for
  IIT Jodhpur                                                             16       3+1*   10+1*    6       3      40
                 Physics (2403)     at    least    one    year/two
                                    semesters. No restrictions for
                                    engineering degrees.




                                                                                          Page | 74
                                                                              JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

B. Annexure II
MEQs and Seat Matrix∗

                                                                                          Seats
                                   Essential subjects in
Institute
                                   Bachelor’s Degree along with                            OBC-                Total
             Program (Code)
                                   minimum duration                         GEN     EWS    NCL     SC     ST
                                   B.Sc./B.S. degree, Physics for
                                   at    least   two    years/four
             M.Sc. in Physics      semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Kanpur                                                                  14+1*    4     9+1*    6      3     38
             (1503)                at     least   one    year/two
                                   semesters. No restrictions for
                                   engineering degrees.
                                   B.Sc./B.S. degree, Physics for
                                   at    least   two    years/four
             M.Sc.‐Ph.D.Dual
                                   semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Kanpur   Degree in Physics                                              7+1*     2       5     3      2     20
                                   at     least   one    year/two
             (1505)
                                   semesters. No restrictions for
                                   engineering degrees.

                                   B.Sc./B.S. or equivalent degree
                                   with minimum of 60% marks and
             Integrated Ph.D. in   of minimum three years duration
IIT Kanpur   Sustainable Energy    with Physics or Chemistry for at         6+1*     1       4     2      1     15
             Engineering (1508)    least two years/four semesters
                                   and Mathematics for at least one
                                   year/ two semesters.

                                   B.S. / B.Sc. / B.Tech / B.E.
IIT          Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D.    degree with at least 4 Physics
                                                                            23+1*    6     15+1*   9      3+1* 59
Kharagpur    in Physics (1604)     subjects and 2 Mathematics
                                   subjects.
                                   B.Sc. degree together with
                                   either of the following, with
                                   minimum number of subjects in
                                   respective domains.
             Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D.    (i) Geology subjects for 6
IIT
             in Geophysics         semesters or 3 years, and 2               6       2       4     1+1*   1     15
Kharagpur
             (1605)                Physics subjects + 2 Mathe
                                   matics subjects.
                                   (ii) Physics subjects for 6
                                   semesters or 3 years, and 2
                                   Mathematics subjects.
                                   Candidates must possess a First
                                   Class in B.Sc. Physics with
                                   Mathematics as Ancillary subject
                                   (OR) the Candidate must possess
                                   a B.Sc. (Science) in First Class with
             Joint M.Sc.‐ Ph.D.    Physics as a Major (>= 60% or >=
IIT
             in Medical Physics    6.5 CGPA) and Mathematics as an           4       1       3     1      1     10
Kharagpur
             (1606)                ancillary and must have completed
                                   at least five of the following Physics
                                   courses: Mechanics, Electricity and
                                   Magnetism,          Thermodynamics,
                                   Optics, Electronics, Solid State
                                   Physics, and Nuclear Physics.

                                                                                             Page | 75
                                                                               JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree, Physics for
                                       at    least   two    years/four
                M.Sc. in Physics       semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Madras                                                                21+1*      5    14+1*     8     4     54
                (1703)                 at     least   one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree, Physics for
                                       at    least   two    years/four
                M.Sc. in Physics       semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Mandi                                                                 12       2+1*   8+1*     4      2     30
                (3103)                 at     least   one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree, Physics for
               Integrated‐ Ph.D        at    least   two    years/four
                (I-PhD) in             semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Mandi                                                                 5          1    2+1*     2      1     12
                Physics (3104)         at     least   one    year/two
                (6 years)              semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.

IIT Palakkad M.Sc. in Physics (2903) Bachelor’s degree                    9          2      6     2+1*    1     21

                                       No restrictions for engineering
                                       degrees. For B.Sc./B.S. degree,
                                       Physics for at least two years/-
                                                                          9+1*       2      7      4      2     25
                                       four semesters and Mathematics
IIT Patna      M.Sc. in Physics (2503)
                                       for at least one year / two
                                       semesters.
                                      No restrictions for Engineering
               Integrated M.Sc.- PhD Degree. For B.Sc./B.S. degree,
               Dual Degree in Physics Physics for at least       two
IIT Patna                                                                 2          1      1      1      0     5
                    (2506) (10-12     years/four    semesters    and
                    semesters) #      Mathematics for at least one
                                      year/two semesters.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                       for at least two years/four
                                       semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Roorkee    M.Sc. in Physics (1805)                                    12       2+1*     9      4      2     30
                                       at    least    one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                       for at least two years/four
                                       semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Ropar      M.Sc. in Physics (2303)                                    9+1*       2    6+1*     4      2     25
                                       at    least    one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                       for at least two years/four
                                       semesters and Mathematics for
IIT Tirupati   M.Sc. in Physics (3003)                                    7+1*       2      5      3      2     20
                                       at    least    one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                       B.Sc./B.S. degree with Physics
                                       for at least two years/four
 IIT (BHU)                             semesters and Mathematics for
               M.Sc. in Physics (2702)                                    10         3      7      3     1+1*   25
Varanasi                               at    least    one    year/two
                                       semesters. No restrictions for
                                       engineering degrees.
                                                                                            Page | 76
                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                           C
ANNEXURE III


CODE OF CONDUCT




                               Page | 77
JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




             Page | 78
                                                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
                               Code of Conduct
All candidates appearing for the JAM 2027 must strictly comply with the following rules and
regulations:

1. Candidates appearing for the examination must carry their Admit Card and Original valid
   Photo - Identity Proof (as indicated in the application form) to the examination hall.
2. The candidate’s fingerprint and/or photograph may be captured before the examination. This
   captured data will be used for verification during admission. Hence, candidates should avoid
   any coating (e.g., ink, mehndi, henna, or tattoo) on their fingertips and have clean fingers on
   the examination day.
3. Carrying mobile phones, smart watches, calculators, and other electronic gadgets inside the
   examination hall is strictly prohibited.
4. Carrying any other electronic devices that can be used for communication or for any other
   purpose, and printed, scanned or hand-written materials, inside the examination hall is strictly
   prohibited.
5. All means of communication (verbal or otherwise) among the candidates inside the
   examination hall are strictly prohibited.
6. Candidates should not tamper the computer and the related hardware provided in the ex-
   amination hall. Candidates found to indulge in such activities will have their candidature
   cancelled.
7. Use of unfair means by a candidate in JAM 2027, whether detected at the time of
   examination, or at any other stage, will lead to the cancellation of candidature as well as
   disqualification of the candidate from appearing in JAM in future. In addition, appropriate legal
   action will be initiated against such candidates.




                                                                                 Page | 79
                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                D
ANNEXURE IV

LIST OF EXAMINATION CITIES




                                    Page | 80
                                                                        JAM 2027 | Information Brochure
                                      Examination Cities
Zone 1: IISc
Anantapur [AP], Angamaly [KL], Bagalkot [KA], Ballari [KA], Belagavi [KA], Bengaluru North [KA],
Bengaluru South [KA], Bidar [KA], Chikkamagaluru [KA], Davangere [KA], Hassan [KA], Hubballi /
Dharwad [KA], Hyderabad [TS], Kalaburagi [KA], Kannur [KL], Kasaragod [KL], Kolar [KA],
Kozhikode [KL], Kurnool [AP], Malappuram [KL], Mandya [KA], Mangaluru [KA], Manipal-Udupi
[KA], Mysuru [KA], Nalgonda [TS], Palakkad [KL], Pathanamthitta [KL], Port Blair [AN],
Shivamogga [KA], Thrissur [KL], Tumkur [KA], Wayanad [KL]

Zone 2: IIT Bombay
Ahmedabad [GJ], Ahilyanagar (Ahmednagar) [MH], Akola [MH], Amravati [MH], Chhatrapati
Sambhaji Nagar (Aurangabad) [MH], Goa [GA], Jalgaon [MH], Kolhapur [MH], Mumbai [MH],
Nagpur [MH], Nanded [MH], Nashik [MH], Pune [MH], Rajkot [GJ], Sangli [MH], Satara [MH],
Solapur [MH], Surat [GJ], Vadodara [GJ]

Zone 3: IIT Delhi
Faridabad [HR], Greater NOIDA [UP], Gurugram [HR], Hanumangarh [RJ], Indore [MP], Jaipur
[RJ], Jammu-Samba [JK], Jodhpur [RJ], Mathura [UP], New Delhi [DL], Srinagar [JK]

Zone 4: IIT Guwahati
Agartala [TR], Dhanbad [JH], Dibrugarh [AS], Dimapur-Kohima [NL], Asansol [WB], Durgapur
[WB], Guwahati [AS], Imphal [MN], Jorhat [AS], Kalyani [WB], Patna [BR], Shillong [ML], Siliguri
[WB]

Zone 5: IIT Kanpur
Agra [UP], Aligarh [UP], Bareilly [UP], Bhopal [MP], Gorakhpur [UP], Jabalpur [MP], Kanpur [UP], Lucknow
[UP], Prayagraj [UP], Varanasi [UP]

Zone 6: IIT Kharagpur
Bhubaneswar [OR], Bilaspur [CH], Brahmapur [OR], Kolaghat [WB], Kolkata [WB], Kharagpur-
Midnapore [WB], Raipur [CH], Ranchi [JH], Vijayawada [AP], Visakhapatnam [AP]

Zone 7: IIT Madras
Alappuzha [KL], Aluva-Ernakulam [KL], Chennai-North [TN], Chennai-South [TN], Coimbatore
[TN], Guntur [AP], Karimnagar [TS], Karaikudi [TN], Khammam [TS], Kollam [KL], Kottayam [KL],
Madurai    [TN], Ongole [AP],         Puducherry   [PY],   Salem    [TN], Thiruvananthapuram        [KL],
Tiruchirappalli [TN], Tirunelveli [TN], Tirupati [AP], Warangal [TS]

Zone 8: IIT Roorkee
Ambala [HR], Dehradun [UK], Ghaziabad [UP], Haldwani [UK], Jalandhar-Phagwara [PB],
Kangra [HP], Meerut [UP], Mohali-Chandigarh [PB], Moradabad [UP], NOIDA [UP], Patiala [PB],
Roorkee [UK], Shimla-Solan [HP]
                                                                                       Page | 81
                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                               E
ANNEXURE V

INFORMATION FOR CERTIFICATES




                                   Page | 82
                                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


              Annexure V – Information relevant to Certificates

Authorities Empowered to issue SC / ST / OBC – NCL / EWS Certificates

➢ District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Deputy Collector / Deputy
  Commissioner / Additional Deputy Commissioner /First lass Stipendiary Magistrate /City
➢ Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate / Taluka Magistrate / Executive Magistrate / Extra Assistant
  Commissioner.
➢ Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/Presidency Magistrate.
➢ Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar.
➢ Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and/or her/his family normally resides.
➢ Administrator / Secretary to Administrator / Development Officer (Lakshadweep Islands). Certificate
  issued by any other official will NOT be accepted.
Person with Disability (PwD) Category
Benefits of concessionary fee and reservations would be given only to those who have benchmark
disability i.e. not less than 40% impairment irrespective of the type of disability. Candidates should
submit a certificate issued by Chief Medical Officer / Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a
Government Health Care Institution. The certificate should be preferably in the format given in the Form V
or Form VI or Form VII in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Rules, 2017 available at

https://upload.indiacode.nic.in/showfile?actid=AC_CEN_25_54_00002_201649_1517807328299&typ
e=ru le&filename=Rules_notified_15.06.pdf

Authorities Empowered to issue Certificate of Dyslexia
A copy of the certificate of Dyslexic condition should be uploaded at the time of online registration. Such
certificate of Dyslexia will be obtained from any Dyslexia Association. Some of them are listed below:
➢ Dyslexia Trust of Kolkata, Divya Jalan, Aruna Bhaskar 3, Dover Park, Kolkata - 700019.
➢ Dyslexia Association of Andhra Pradesh (DAAP), 3‐4‐494/1,1st Floor, Macherla Gastrology
  Hospital, Reddy College Road, Barkatpura, Hyderabad, Telangana, 500027.
➢ Madras Dyslexia Association, 94 Park View, 1st Floor, G.N. Chetty Road, T. Nagar, Chennai -
  600017.
➢ Maharashtra Dyslexia Association, 003, Amit Park Bldg, L J Road, Deonar, Mumbai
  400088.
➢ The Dyslexia Association of India, MZ‐47, The Center Stage Mall, Plot No 01,
  Block L, Sector 18, Noida, 201303.




                                                                                      Page | 83
                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                               F
ANNEXURE VI

PRO-FORMA: OBC-NCL CERTIFICATE




                                  Page | 84
                                                                           JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

         Annexure VI - Proforma for OBC-NCL (Non-Creamy Layer) Certificate

       (FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES APPLYING FOR
             ADMISSIONS TO CENTRAL EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS (CEIs) UNDER THE
                                          GOVERNMENT OF INDIA)



This is to certify that Shri/Smt/Kumari                                                             Son/Daughter
of Shri/Smt.                                                                             of          Village/Town
                                      in District/Division                                      in            the
State/Union Territory                       belongs to the                               Community which is
recognized as backward class under the Government of India, Ministry of Social Justice and
Empowerment’s Resolution No._______________________ dated                                       *


Shri/Smt/Kumari                                                      and/or his/her family ordinarily reside(s) in
the                                       District/Division of the
State/Union Territory. This is also to certify that he/she does NOT belong to the persons/sections
(Creamy Layer) mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule to the Government of India, Department of
Personnel & Training O.M. No. 36012/22/93- Estt. (SCT) dated 08/09/93 which is modified vide OM
No. 36033/3/2004 Estt. (Res.) dated 09/03/2004, further modified vide OM No. 36033/3/2004-
Estt.(Res.) dated 14/10/2008, again further modified vide OM No.36036/2/2013-Estt. (Res.) dated.
30/05/2014 and again further modified vide OM No. 36033/1/2013-Estt (Res) dated 13/09/2017.



Dated:                                                         District Magistrate /
                                                               Deputy Commissioner /
Seal                                                           Any other Competent Authority


* The authority issuing the certificate may have to mention the details of Resolution (Number and
  Date) of Government of India, in which the caste of the candidate is mentioned as OBC.
NOTE:
(a) The term "Ordinarily" used here will have the same meaning as in Section 20 of the
    Representation of the People Act, 1950.
(b) The authorities competent to issue Caste Certificates are indicated below:
A. District Magistrate/ Additional Magistrate/ Collector/ Deputy Commissioner/ Additional Deputy
   Commissioner / Deputy Collector/ 1st Class Stipendiary Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate/
   Taluka Magistrate/Executive Magistrate/Extra Assistant Commissioner (not below the rank of 1st
   Class Stipendiary Magistrate)
B. Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/Presidency Magistrate
C. Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar and
D. Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and/or his/her family resides


       The date of issue of OBC (NCL) certificate should be on or after April 1, 2026



                                                                                               Page | 85
                  JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                          G
ANNEXURE VII

PRO-FORMA: EWS CERTIFICATE




                                    Page | 86
                                                                                       JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

   Annexure VII - Proforma for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) Certificate
             (INCOME & ASSETS CERTIFICATE TO BE PRODUCED BY ECONOMICALLY
                                   WEAKER SECTIONS)

                                              Government of _________________
                           (Name & Address of the authority issuing the certificate)
Certificate No.:                                                                                      Date:

                                        VALID FOR THE YEAR


This is to certify that Shri/Smt/Kumari
son/daughter/wife of                                                           permanent resident of
Village/Street                                                                 Post Office
               District ___________________________ in the State/Union Territory ________________________ Pin
Code _____________ whose photograph is attested below to Economically Weaker Sections, since the gross annual
income* of his/her family** is below Rs. 8 Lakh (Rupee Eight Lakh only) for the financial year ________ His/Her family
does not own or possess any of the following assets***:
    I.     5 acres of agricultural land and above;
    II.    Residential flat of 1000 sq. ft. and above;
    Ill.    Residential plot of 100 sq. yards and above in notified municipalities;
    IV. Residential plot of 200 sq. yards and above in. areas other than the notified municipalities.

   Shri/Smt/Kumari                                 belongs to the                     caste which is
   not recognized as a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes (Centre List)


              Recent
           Passport size
             attested
           photograph of
                                                                      Signature with seal of office ____________________
           the applicant
                                                                      Name

                                                                      Designation




*Note 1:      Income covered all sources i.e. salary, agriculture, business, profession, etc.
**Note 2: The term “Family” for this purpose include the person, who seeks benefit of reservation, his/her parents and
          siblings below the age of 18 years as also his/her spouse and children below the age of 18 years.
***Note 3: The property held by a “Family” in different locations or different places/cities have been clubbed while
           applying the land or property holding test to determine EWS status.

The authorities competent to issue EWS Certificates are indicated below:
  (i) District Magistrate/ Additional Magistrate/ Collector/ Deputy Commissioner/ Additional Deputy Commissioner/
        Deputy Collector/ 1st Class Stipendiary Magistrate/ Sub-Divisional Magistrate/ Taluka Magistrate/Executive
        Magistrate/Extra Assistant Commissioner (not below the rank of 1st Class Stipendiary Magistrate)
  (ii) Chief Presidency Magistrate/Additional Chief Presidency Magistrate/Presidency Magistrate
  (iii) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tehsildar
  (iv) Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the candidate and/or his/her family resides.



                        The date of issue of EWS certificate should be on or after April 1, 2026




                                                                                                               Page | 87
                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                   Page | 88
     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




Appendices




                               Page | 89
                      JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                               H
APPENDIX I

PWD: RELEVANT CERTIFICATES




                                   Page | 90
                                                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


        Certificates required for various categories of PwD candidates

PwD candidates are required to login to JOAPS (https://joaps.iitkgp.ac.in/) and
exercise their options as appropriate and upload the documents as indicated in the
table below. Exercising the option on JOAPS is required. Due date: December 30,
2026 (tentative). Appendix-I is available at:
https://cdnbbsr.s3waas.gov.in/s3e58aea67b01fa747687f038dfde066f6/uploads/2025/
08/202508181436575108.pdf They are also available in this document.



  Sl.                                 Compensatory                 Certificates/Docu
  No.    Type of Disability           Time/ Scribe                 ments Needed

   1.   PwD-A: PwD candidates
                                      Only Compensatory Time       - UDID Card / Number
        with benchmark disability                                  - PwD Certificate (optional)
                                      and/or Scribe requested
        greater than 40% and                                       Appendix II of Information
                                      (Compensatory time will be
        having one or more of the                                  Brochure (if opted for
                                      automatically given when
        following disabilities:                                    Scribe)
                                      Scribe is requested)
        a. Blindness Locomotor
        disability (Both Arms only)
        Cerebral Palsy




   2.   PwD-B: PwD candidates         Only Compensatory Time       - UDID Card / Number
        with benchmark disability     and/or Scribe requested      - PwD Certificate (optional)
        greater than 40% except       (Compensatory time will be   - Appendix I
        for     the    disabilities   automatically given when     - Appendix II of Information
        mentioned in Row 1            Scribe is requested)         Brochure (if opted for
                                                                   Scribe)




   3.   PwD-C: PwD candidates         Only Compensatory Time       - UDID Card / Number
        with disability less than     and/or Scribe requested      - PwD Certificate (optional)
        40%                           (Compensatory time will be   - Appendix I (except for the
                                      automatically given when     disabilities mentioned in
                                      Scribe is requested)         Row 1)
                                                                   - Appendix II of Information
                                                                   Brochure     (if opted for
                                                                   Scribe)




                                                                                  Page | 91
                                                                              JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


                                                                                                                Appendix I

          Certificate for recommendation of scribe and/or Compensatory Time
               for persons with disabilities as defined under Section 2(s) of
     the RPwD Act 2016 and have limitation in writing as specified in the Guidelines.


1. This is to certify that I have examined Mr./Ms./Mrs. ……………………………………………
(name of the candidate), S/o or D/o ........................................................................................ ,
a resident of .......................................................................................... (Village/District/State)
aged …….yrs, a person with ………….(nature of disability/condition), and to state that
he/she has physical limitation which hampers his/her writing capability owing to his/her
above disability/condition. He/ she requires support of scribe and/or Compensatory Time as
specified in the Guidelines, for writing the examination.

2. The above candidate uses aids and assistive device such as prosthetics & orthotics, hearing
aid (name to be specified)/ other (to be specified), which is/are essential for the candidate
to appear at the examination with the assistance of scribe.

3. This certificate is issued only for the purpose of appearing in written examinations
conducted by Examining Bodies and is valid up to ………… (it is valid for maximum period of
one year or less as may be certified by the medical authority).




                                                                                                                   Signature
                                       Chief Medical Officer/ Civil Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent of a
                                                                                Government health care institution




                                                                                                    Name & Designation

                                             Name of Government Hospital/ Health Care Centre with Seal

Place:

Date:

Note:

Certificate should be given by a specialist of the relevant stream/ disability (example, Visual
impairment - Ophthalmologist, Locomotor disability – Orthopedic specialist/ PMR).



                                                                                                                Page | 92
                     JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




                                                  I
APPENDIX II

PWD: SCRIBE DECLARATION




                                    Page | 93
                                                                    JAM 2027 | Information Brochure

                               JAM 2027
                    Joint Admission Test for Masters
                                (जै म) 2027
                 स्नातकोत्तर उपाधि हे तु सं युक्त प्रवे श परीक्षा




                              Form for Scribe Assistance

Enrolment ID
Name of the
Candidate
Qualifying                               Qualifying
Degree                                   Discipline
Percentage of                            Nature of
Disability                               Disability
                                         Test Paper - I
Date of Exam       14 February, 2027
                                         Test Paper - II


                                                                Please tick and sign against
        Declaration by the candidate                            the appropriate declaration
                                                                (only one)

        I have understood the meaning of scribe and I DO
        NOT require scribe assistance for JAM 2027.
        Note: If you declare this option, you have to sign      Signature of the candidate
 (a)
        against (a) in this declaration and submit it.
                                                                Date:



        I have understood the meaning of scribe and I
        request Organizing Institute, JAM 2027 to arrange
        for a scribe assistance
  (b)
        Note: If you declare this option, you have to sign      Signature of the candidate
        against (b) in this declaration and submit along with
        Form - I and APPENDIX - I.                              Date:




                                                                                    Page | 94
                                                                      JAM 2027 | Information Brochure


                                 JAM 2027
                      Joint Admission Test for Masters
                                   (जै म) 2027
                    स्नातकोत्तर उपाधि हे तु सं युक्त प्रवे श परीक्षा




                                                                                        FORM I


Enrolment ID
Name of the
Candidate
                                             Test Paper - I
Date of Exam        14 February, 2027
                                             Test Paper - II


Declaration to be made by the PwD candidate (for JAM 2027 scribe assistance)

 I hereby declare that:


 □   I request Organizing Institute, JAM 2027 to arrange for scribe assistance.

 □   I have read and fully understood the instructions and meaning of scribe and the nature
     of assistance that a scribe can provide to me in the JAM 2027 Examination.

 □   My physical disability is such that the assistance of a scribe is essential to me in the JAM
     2027 Examination. I will engage the scribe only for reading the question paper,
     instructions on the screen and/or in mouse-clicks, if I am not able to do so.

 □   I will not engage the scribe in any type of communication other than the above and shall
     not ask the scribe to translate, emphasize or interpret the contents of the test paper.

 □   In case I am found to violate any of the above guidelines, or my declaration is found to
     be incorrect, my JAM 2027 candidature will stand disqualified.




Date:                                                               Signature of the candidate




                                                                                      Page | 95
                         JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




This page is intentionally left blank.




                                                   Page | 96
                                   JAM 2027 | Information Brochure




For more details, please visit:

https://jam.iitkgp.ac.in




Contact Us
Organizing Chairperson, JAM 2027

GATE-JAM Oﬀice, IIT Kharagpur

Kharagpur-721302

West Bengal, INDIA

Phone no: 03222-282091 / 95
Mobile no: 9531796553
Email: jam@iitkgp.ac.in




                                             Page | 97
