                              APPLICATION GUIDELINES
                 JAPANESE GOVERNMENT (MEXT) SCHOLARSHIP FOR 2027
              (UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS) (EMBASSY RECOMMENDATION)

The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) of Japan offers scholarships to
international students who wish to study at Japanese national universities as Undergraduate Students under the
Japanese Government (MEXT) Scholarship Program as follows.

1. DEFINITION OF “UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS”
Those who are enrolled in an undergraduate course at a university, or who are receiving preparatory education in
the Japanese language and other subjects prior to placement in an undergraduate course at the university.

2. FIELDS OF STUDY
Those who apply as an undergraduate student must choose a “Field of Study (in either the “Social Sciences
andHumanities” or “Natural Sciences”), “Course”, and “Major(s)” from the below table. Applicants may enter a
first, second, and third choice.

(1) Social Sciences and Humanities
         Courses                                                     Majors
                         1. Law       2. Politics     3. Pedagogy        4. Sociology
   Social Sciences and
                         5. Literature      6. History     7. Japanese Language
   Humanities - A
                         8. Others (excluding “1. Economics”, “2. Business Administration” and “3.Others” in Humanities B.)
   Social Sciences and 1. Economics            2. Business Administration            3.Others (Accounting, Financial
   Humanities - B        Economics, etc.)
(Note) Applicants who choose “8. Others” in the Humanities - A course may have difficulties in finding universities
       that can accept them, depending on their majors.
         Fields of art, including music, are not majors eligible for application.

(2) Natural Sciences
      Courses                                                 Majors
                  Science (1. Mathematics 2. Physics 3. Chemistry)
                  Electrical and Electronic Studies (4. Electronics 5. Electrical Engineering
                  6. Information Engineering)
                  Mechanical Studies (7. Mechanical Engineering 8. Naval Architecture)
   Natural        Civil Engineering and Architecture (9. Civil Engineering 10. Architecture
   Sciences - A   11. Environmental Engineering)
                    Chemical Studies (12. Applied Chemistry 13. Chemical Engineering
                    14. Industrial Chemistry 15. Textile Engineering)
                    Other Fields (16. Metallurgical Engineering 17. Mining Engineering
                    18. Maritime Engineering 19. Biotechnology)
                    Agricultural Studies (1. Agriculture 2. Agricultural Chemistry 3. Agricultural Engineering
  Natural           4. Animal Science 5. Veterinary Medicine 6. Forestry 7. Food Science 8. Fisheries)
  Sciences - B      Hygienic Studies (9. Pharmacy        10. Hygienics     11. Nursing)
                    Science (12. Biology)
  Natural
                    1. Medicine     2. Dentistry
  Sciences - C
(Note) An applicant who chooses Natural Sciences and would like to choose more than one major may select up
       to three majors from within the same course (i.e. Natural Sciences A, B or C). However, an applicant who
       selects Natural Sciences - C as his/her first choice may choose his/her second-choice major from Natural
       Sciences - B or C and a third-choice major from Natural Sciences – B, since Natural Sciences - C offers
       only two majors.

                                                          - 1 -
3. PREPARATORY EDUCATION AND STUDY AT UNIVERSITY
(1) Preparatory Education ※Not provided for grantees enrolling directly in their university
   ① As a rule, each grantee will be enrolled at a preparatory educational institution designated by MEXT (ABK
      College for Social Sciences and Humanities students in 2 (1) above, and Osaka University for Natural
      Sciences students in 2 (2) above) for the first year of the scholarship period. The preparatory course is a one-
      year intensive course in the Japanese language and other subjects necessary for preparation for proceeding to
      university. Its curriculum mainly consists of education in the Japanese language, and includes other subjects
      such as Japanese affairs, mathematics, English, and social studies for those majoring in Social Science and
      Humanities, and physics, chemistry and biology for those majoring in Natural Sciences.
   ② A grantee who has completed the preparatory education will go on to a university designated by MEXT upon
      passing the entrance examination individually administered by the university. If a grantee is deemed to be
      incapable of completing the preparatory course, his/her scholarship will be cancelled and he/she will be
      required to return to his/her home country.
   ③ If a grantee cannot enter the university even though he/she has completed the preparatory education, his/her
      scholarship will be cancelled, and he/she will be required to return to his/her home country.
(2) University Education
   ① The university which a grantee will enter will be decided by MEXT in consultation with the university and
      the preparatory educational institution and in comprehensive consideration of the results of the academic
      examinations in the First Screening conducted at the Japanese Embassy or Consulate (hereinafter referred to
      as “Japanese diplomatic mission”) in the country of the applicant’s nationality, academic achievement at the
      preparatory educational institution, the grantee’s proposed major subject, and the receiving capacity of the
      university as well as the region where it is located. No objection by the grantee against the decision will be
      allowed.
   ② In principle, the academic year begins on April 1 each year and ends on March 31 the following year.
   ③ All classes will be given in the Japanese language (except where a grantee is directly placed at a university
      which requires no Japanese language ability). (See 4. DIRECT PLACEMENT)
   ④ If a grantee attends the designated university for the prescribed number of years and earns the required number
      of credits as determined by the university, he/she will be awarded a bachelor’s degree.
(3) Change of Field of Study, Transfer to Another University and Subjects to be Studied
   ① A grantee will not be permitted to change his/her course (Social Sciences and Humanities A and B, and Natural
      Sciences A, B, and C).
   ② A grantee will not be permitted to transfer to another university during the period of the preparatory education
      course or the undergraduate course.
   ③ A grantee must study compulsory subjects as determined by the preparatory educational institution and the
      university even if he/she has already studied them at a university outside Japan.

4. DIRECT PLACEMENT
(1) For only those who choose “Social Sciences and Humanities”, if MEXT judges that they have sufficient Japanese
    language ability, etc., they will be directly placed in a university without going through preparatory education.
    In addition, regardless of their fields of study (either Social Sciences and Humanities or Natural Sciences)
    applicants who have sufficient Japanese language proficiency may request to enroll directly in their university
    without taking the preparatory education course. For cases where the undergraduate course of a university does
    not require Japanese language proficiency at the time of enrollment and allows applicants to enroll without going
    through the preparatory education, applicants may directly enroll in the said undergraduate course. (These cases
    are called “direct placement”.) In such cases, enrollment may be either from the spring term (grantees arrive in
    Japan in April 2027 and start from the spring term) or from the autumn term (grantees arrive in Japan in
    September or October 2027, and start from the autumn term), depending on the university’s academic calendar.
(2) The decision on universities for applicants who are eligible for direct placement shall be made by MEXT in
    consultation with the relevant university, based on the preference of each applicant who has passed the First

                                                        - 2 -
   Screening. The university will examine the applicant’s academic achievement (academic grades in high school,
   etc.), and determine whether the applicant has adequate language skills for taking an undergraduate course in
   either Japanese or English by requiring the taking of a language proficiency test score (such as the Japanese-
   Language Proficiency Test (JLPT) for Japanese). In addition, some universities may conduct interviews with
   applicants or use other examinations to determine the applicant’s Japanese or English language proficiency.
  (3) The period of consultation for direct placement will be from after the Second Screening to February 12, 2027.
     If the accepting university agrees to accept the applicant, he/she will enroll in the university under direct
     placement; otherwise he/she will be required to enroll in the preparatory educational institution.

5. QUALIFICATIONS AND CONDITIONS
MEXT accepts applications from international students for study in Japan who satisfy the following qualifications
and conditions. MEXT’s aim is to foster human resources who will become bridges of friendship between the
grantee’s country and Japan through study in Japan and who will contribute to the development of both countries
and the wider world.
(1) Nationality: Applicants must have the nationality of a country that has diplomatic relations with Japan. An
    applicant who has Japanese nationality at the time of application is not eligible. However, persons with dual
    nationality who hold Japanese nationality and whose place of residence at the time of application is outside of
    Japan are eligible to apply as long as they choose the nationality of the other country and relinquish their
    Japanese nationality by the date of their arrival in Japan (when the acquisition of student status is established at
    the receiving school). The First Screening must be conducted at the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country
    whose citizenship the applicant chooses.
(2) Age: Applicants, in principle, must have been born on or after April 2, 2002. However, applicants who satisfy
    the conditions for Academic Background stipulated in ③ below must be 18 years of age or older at the time of
    admission to a university in Japan.
   Exceptions are limited to cases in which MEXT deems that the applicant could not apply within the eligible age
   limit due to the situation or circumstances of the applicant’s country (military service obligation, loss of
   educational opportunities due to disturbances of war, etc.). Personal circumstances (financial situation, family
   circumstances, state of health, circumstances related to applicant’s university or place of employment, etc.) will
   not be considered for exceptions.
(3) Academic Background: Applicants must satisfy any one of the following conditions. However, applicants
    desiring direct placement must satisfy condition ①, or condition ③, or condition ④.
    ① Applicants who have completed 12 years of schooling in countries other than Japan. (Applicants who will
       meet the above condition by March 2027 are eligible. However, applicants wishing to enroll from the autumn
       term through direct placement must be expected to complete 12 years of schooling by August 2027.)
    ② Applicants who have completed their studies at a school equivalent to a Japanese upper secondary school in
       countries other than Japan. (Applicants who will meet the above condition by March 2027 are eligible.)
    ③ Applicants who have successfully passed an academic qualification examination showing equivalency to the
       completion of 12 years of schooling in countries other than Japan. (Applicants who will meet the above
       condition by March 2027 are eligible.)
    ④ Other than the above ①, ② and ③ conditions, applicants who are eligible for enrollment in a Japanese
       university at the time of application.
(4) Japanese Language: Applicants must be willing to learn Japanese. Applicants must be interested in Japan and
    be willing to deepen their understanding of Japan before and after arriving in Japan. In addition, in principle,
    applicants must be willing to carry out their academic studies in Japan in Japanese.
(5) Health: Applicants must submit a health certificate in the prescribed format signed by a physician attesting that
    the applicant has no physical or mental conditions hindering the applicant’s study in Japan.
(6) Arrival in Japan: In principle, applicants must be able to arrive in Japan between April 1, 2027, and April 7,
    2027. Departure from the home residence should be on or after April 1, 2027. If an applicant is to enroll in

                                                         - 3 -
    his/her university from the fall semester through direct placement, he/she must be able to arrive in Japan during
    the period specified by the accepting university, normally within two weeks before and after the starting date of
    the university’s relevant academic term for that year.
   If the applicant does not arrive in Japan within the specified period for personal reasons, travel expenses to Japan
   will not be paid.
   Excluding cases in which MEXT deems as unavoidable circumstances, the applicant must withdraw from this
   scholarship program if the applicant cannot arrive in Japan by the end of the specified period above, which is
   decided by MEXT or the accepting university.
(7) Visa Requirement: Applicants shall, in principle, newly obtain a “Student” visa at the Japanese diplomatic
    mission located in the applicant’s country/region of nationality before traveling to Japan, and then enter Japan
    with the newly obtained “Student” resident status. Accordingly, even if the applicant already has other status of
    residence (“Permanent resident,” “Long-term resident,” etc.), the applicant must newly obtain a “Student” visa
    and re-enter Japan with that visa. In case the grantee comes to Japan without newly obtaining the “Student” visa,
    the payment of the scholarship will be suspended. In case the applicant resides in Japan for exceptional reasons
    before acceptance, the applicant must change or renew his/her status of residence to that of “Student” by the end
    of the month prior to the month of the first scholarship payment installment. In addition, it must be understood
    that the applicant’s original status of residence such as "Permanent Resident" or "Long-term Resident", he/she
    should be aware that the original status might not be necessarily regranted after the expiration of the status as a
    MEXT Scholarship student.
(8) Non-Eligibility: Those who fall into any one of the following categories are ineligible. If an applicant is
    identified as being ineligible after selection as a scholarship student, he/she must withdraw from the scholarship
    program.
   ① Those who are military personnel or military civilian employees at the time of their arrival in Japan or during
       the period of the payment of the scholarship;
   ② Those who cannot arrive in Japan by the last date of the period specified by MEXT or the accepting
       university;
   ③ Those who are previous grantees of Japanese Government (MEXT) Scholarship programs (including those
       who withdrew from the scholarship program after acquisition of student status). The Monbukagakusho
       Honors Scholarship for Privately-Financed International Students is not included in the Japanese Government
       (MEXT) Scholarship programs;
   ④ Those who are currently also applying to another program under the Japanese Government (MEXT)
       Scholarship system. This includes the programs for which scholarship payments will begin in FY 2026,
       although their final selection results have not been decided yet, and the programs for which scholarship
       payments will begin in FY 2027;
   ⑤ Those who are already enrolled in a Japanese university or other institution with a residence status of
       “Student,” or who are to be enrolled, or plan to be enrolled, in a Japanese university or other institution as a
       privately-financed international student from the time of application to the MEXT scholarship program in
       the applicant’s country until the commencement of the period for payment of the MEXT scholarship.
       However, this stipulation does not apply to privately-financed international students who are currently
       enrolled, or are planning to be enrolled, in a Japanese university or other institution but are certain at the time
       of application that they will verifiably complete their studies before the start of the scholarship payment
       period and will newly acquire or renew their “Student" residence status;
   ⑥ Those who are planning to receive other scholarships or fellowships from the Japanese government, a
       Japanese government-related organization or others after the start of the scholarship payment period;
   ⑦ Those who are expected to graduate at the time of application and cannot satisfy the condition for academic
       background by the deadline given;
   ⑧ Holders of dual nationality at the time of application who cannot verify that they will give up Japanese
       nationality by the time of the arrival in Japan (the acquisition of student status);
   ⑨ Those who change their residence status to that of other than “Student” after their arrival in Japan;
   ⑩ Those who plan to, from the time of application for the MEXT scholarship program, engage in long-term

                                                          - 4 -
     research (such as fieldwork or internship) outside Japan or plan to take a long-term leave of absence from
     the preparatory educational institution or the university;
   ⑪ Those who are found to have attempted or actually committed any kinds of cheating prohibited by the
     examiner during the written examination of the First Screening.
(9) Others: The MEXT Scholarship will be granted to those who are willing to contribute to mutual understanding
    between Japan and their home country by participating in activities at schools and communities during their
    study in Japan while contributing to the internationalization of Japan. They shall also make efforts to promote
    relations between the home country and Japan by maintaining close relations with the university attended after
    graduation, cooperating with the conducting of surveys and questionnaires, and cooperating with relevant
    projects and events conducted by the Japanese diplomatic mission after they return to their home countries.

6. PERIOD OF SCHOLARSHIP
(1) A grantee who studies at a preparatory educational institution prior to enrollment in a university: The
    scholarship period will last for five years from April 2027 to March 2032, including one-year preparatory
    education in the Japanese language and other subjects due to be provided upon arrival in Japan. For scholarship
    grantees majoring in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine or a six-year course in pharmacy, the scholarship
    period will be seven years, until March 2034.
(2) A grantee who enrolls in a university through direct placement: The scholarship period will last for four
    years (or for six years for those majoring in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine or in a six-year course
    in pharmacy). The scholarship period will start from the time of enrollment in the university which the
    university designates.
    Note 1: In (2) above, in principle, the period of enrollment may be April 2027, September 2027 or October
            2027, depending on the university’s academic calendar.
    Note 2: If a grantee graduates earlier or withdraws from his/her undergraduate course for early entrance to
            graduate school, the scholarship will be provided until his/her graduation or withdrawal.
    Note 3: The grantees majoring in a six-year course in pharmacy must undergo the “Pharmaceutical
            Common Achievement Tests” implemented prior to practical training. In cases when it is impossible
            for the grantees to fulfill the fixed requirements necessary for practical training, the scholarship
            may be cancelled.
(3) Extension of period of scholarship
If a grantee graduates from an undergraduate course, is admitted for enrollment in a master's course or a doctoral
course (first phase) at a graduate school during the period of his/her scholarship and has outstanding academic
achievement that meets certain criteria, he/she may have the scholarship period extended upon a successful
examination by MEXT.

7. SCHOLARSHIP BENEFITS
(1) Allowance: 117,000 yen per month. A supplemental regional allowance of 2,000 yen or 3,000 yen per month
    will be added to the monthly scholarship amount for the grantees studying or conducting research in specially
    designated regions. Due to the situation of the Japanese Government’s budget, the amount of payment may be
    subject to change each fiscal year. If a grantee is absent from the university or the preparatory educational
    institution for an extended period, the scholarship shall be suspended for that period.
(2) Education Fees: Fees for the entrance examination, matriculation, and tuition at universities will be waived.
(3) Traveling Expenses
 ① Transportation to Japan: MEXT stipulates the travel schedule and route, and provides an airline ticket to
     grantees who will arrive in Japan during the specified period stated in “5. (6) Arrival in Japan”. The airline
     ticket will be an economy-class ticket for the flight from the international airport closest to the grantee’s
     residence (in principle, the country of nationality) to an international airport in Japan used on the normal route
     to the accepting university. The grantee shall bear at his/her own expense all costs related to domestic travel
     from the grantee’s residence to the nearest international airport, airport taxes, airport usage fees, special taxes

                                                         - 5 -
   necessary for travel, travel expenses within Japan (including airline transit costs), travel insurance expenses,
   carry-on luggage or unaccompanied baggage expenses, etc. In a case of (a) or (b) below, MEXT will provide
   an economy-class airline ticket from the grantee’s country of nationality to the said third country, and from the
   third country to an international airport in Japan used on the normal route to the accepting university, while the
   grantee shall also bear at his/her own expense travel and lodging costs incurred in a third country:
       (a) The grantee must travel to a third country before coming to Japan for visa purposes because there is no
         Japanese diplomatic mission in his/her country or because the Japanese diplomatic mission in his/her
         country is temporally closed, or
       (b) There is no direct flight from the grantee’s country of nationality to Japan.
   In principle, the address given in the space for “Your address before departure for Japan” on the application
   form shall be recognized as the “residence,” and the airline ticket will be arranged for a flight from the
   international airport nearest to that address. Except for cases when the grantee must travel to a third country to
   obtain a visa, MEXT will not provide an airline ticket for cases of travel to Japan from a country other than the
   grantee’s country of residence due to the grantee’s personal circumstances. If a grantee will arrive in Japan
   before or after the specified period stated in “5. (6) Arrival in Japan”, travel expenses will not be paid.
② Transportation from Japan: Based on the application by the grantee, MEXT will provide an airline ticket to
   grantees who will graduate from the accepting university and return to the home country by the end of the final
   month of the period of scholarship (See “6. PERIOD OF SCHOLARSHIP”) designated by MEXT. MEXT
   shall provide an economy-class airline ticket from the international airport in Japan used for the normal route
   to and from the accepting university to the international airport (in principle, in the country of nationality)
   nearest to the returning recipient’s residence. The travel schedule change or route change is not allowed after
   provision of airline ticket. The grantee shall bear at his/her own expense all costs related to travel from the
   grantee’s residence in Japan to the nearest international airport, airport taxes, airport usage fees, special taxes
   necessary for travel, travel expenses within the country of nationality (including airline transit costs), travel
   insurance expenses, carry-on luggage or unaccompanied baggage expenses, etc. If a grantee returns to the
   home country before the end of period of scholarship due to personal circumstances, or reasons stated in “8.
   SUSPENSION OF PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIP”, MEXT will not pay for the return travel expenses.
 If a grantee continues to stay in Japan after the scholarship period has ended (eg., proceeding to further education
 or being employed in Japan, continuing to be registered at the university), travel expenses for a temporary return
 will also not be paid.

8. SUSPENSION OF PAYMENT OF SCHOLARSHIP
Payment of the scholarship will be suspended or cancelled for the reasons given below. Should any of the following
reasons apply, the grantee may be ordered to return a part of, or all of, the scholarship paid up to that time. Payment
of the scholarship may also be stopped during the period up to the decision on the disposition of the matter.
  ①A grantee is determined to have made a false statement on his/her application;
  ②A grantee violates any article of his/her pledge to the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
      Technology;
  ③A grantee violates any Japanese laws and is sentenced to detention for an indefinite period or for a period
      exceeding 1 year;
  ④A grantee is suspended from his/her university or preparatory educational institution or receives other
      punishment, or is removed from enrollment as a disciplinary action in accordance with the school regulations
      of the accepting institution;
  ⑤It has been determined that it will be impossible for a grantee to complete the course within the standard period
      of study because of poor academic grades or suspension or absence from the university or preparatory
      educational institution;
  ⑥A grantee came to Japan without newly obtaining a “Student” visa, or changed his/her status of residence to
      something other than “Student” after entering Japan;
  ⑦A grantee has received another scholarship (a scholarship or fellowship from the Japanese government, a
        Japanese government-related organization, or others) not approved for acceptance in conjunction with the
        MEXT Scholarship.
  ⑧A grantee proceeds to a more advanced level of education without receiving approval for an extension of the

                                                        - 6 -
      period of the scholarship.

9. SELECTION
(1) The Japanese diplomatic missions will conduct the First Screening of applicants through examination of
    submitted application documents, written academic examinations and interviews.
   ① Subjects of Written Academic Examinations (to be taken by all applicants)
                 Chosen Field of Study                                                   Subjects
          Social Sciences and Humanities – A
                                                              Japanese(A), English(A), and Mathematics(A)
          Social Sciences and Humanities - B
                                                              Japanese(B), English(B), Mathematics(B), Chemistry, and
          Natural Sciences - A
                                                              Physics
          Natural Sciences - B                                Japanese(B), English(B), Mathematics(B), Chemistry, and
          Natural Sciences - C                                Biology

  ② Calculators and other devices may not be used during the written examinations.

(2) The date and time of the notification of the results of the First Screening will be specified separately by the
    Japanese diplomatic mission in the applicant’s country; the reasons for the results of the screening will not be
    disclosed. Those who pass the First Screening will not necessarily be selected as MEXT Scholarship grantees.

(3) Applicants who have passed the First Screening will be recommended to MEXT. MEXT will then conduct the
    Second Screening of the recommended applicants and decide the selection of the scholarship grantees. MEXT
    selects candidates from each course.

(4) Applicants will be informed of the final selection results by the Japanese diplomatic mission in the applicant’s
    country after February 2027. The reasons for the results will not be disclosed. Any objections to the decision on
    the university of placement will not be accepted.

10. APPLICATION DOCUMENTS
Applicants must submit the following documents to the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country of the
applicant’s nationality by the designated deadline. The submitted documents will not be returned.



                                                 1 original       1 copy
 No.                Documents                                                                   Remarks


  ① Application Form                             ○                ○        Use the FY2027 Application Form. (See Note 4.)
                                                                           Submit after passing the First Screening (only for
                                                                           applicants who (a) select “Social Sciences and
                                                                           Humanities” and are eligible for direct placement
                                                                           or (b) desire direct placement regardless of their
  ② Direct Placement Preference Form             ●
                                                                           fields of study (either Social Sciences and
                                                                           Humanities or Natural Sciences)). Details will be
                                                                           informed to eligible applicants later. Use the
                                                                           FY2027 Preference Form. (See Note 5.)
    Academic transcript(s) for all                                         A transcript issued either by the school/university
  ③ school years of school/university            ○                ○        attended or by the applicant’s national
    attended                                                               government. (See Note 6.)
                                                                           If the applicant has not yet graduated, submit a
        Certificate(s) of graduation of
  ④                                              ○                ○        certificate of prospective graduation from the
        school/university attended
                                                                           school/university. (See Note 7.)
    Recommendation letter from either a
                                                                           Free format. A sample format is available. (See
  ⑤ class teacher or principal of last           ○                ○
                                                                           Note 8.)
    school attended

                                                                - 7 -
  ⑥ Medical certificate                          ○        ○         Use the FY2027certificate form. (See Note 9.)
  ⑦ Certificate of enrollment                    ●        ●         Only for those currently enrolled in a university.
    Certificate of university enrollment                            Only for those who pass the university enrollment
  ⑧                                              ●        ●
    qualification examination                                       qualification examination. (See Note 7 and 10.)
                                                                    Only in case the applicant has documents attesting
                                                                    to competency in Japanese or English; submit 2
                                                          ●         copies. No original document necessary. The date
  ⑨ Certificate of language proficiency
                                                       (2 copies)   of issue of the certificates should be no earlier than
                                                                    two years from the date of application to the
                                                                    Japanese diplomatic mission. (See Note 11.)
Note 1:   Documents indicated by the white circle (○) must be submitted by all the applicants. Documents
          indicated by the black circle (●) should be submitted only if applicable.
Note 2:   These documents must be written in Japanese or English, or if they are written in any other languages,
          translation in either Japanese or English should be attached.
Note 3:   The applicants must submit two application packets: one is a complete set of original documents and the
          other is a complete set of their copies. Ensure that there is no missing information in the application form
          when printing it out. Write the document number, from ① to ⑨ (refer to the numbers in the table
          above) in the upper right-hand corner of the first page for all the documents.
Note 4:   The applicant’s photograph to be attached to the Application Form should be of clear quality, taken within
          six months of submission, and printed on paper specially for photographs. The photograph should be 4.5
          x 3.5 cm., upper-body, full-faced, no hats. Please write applicant’s name and nationality on the back of
          the photograph. The photograph data can be pasted to the Application Form and printed out.
Note 5:   A list of undergraduate courses permitting direct placement is provided by the Japanese diplomatic
          mission in the applicant’s country. After passing the First Screening, applicants who (a) select “Social
          Sciences and Humanities” and are eligible for direct placement, or (b) desire direct placement regardless
          of their fields of study (either Social Sciences and Humanities or Natural Sciences) should choose and fill
          in their preferred university and department in the Preference Form out of the list. Prior to the submission
          of the Form, applicants should inquire to the Japanese diplomatic mission about, and understand the
          information regarding, the undergraduate courses accepting direct placement, the number of students
          accepted, any conditions for acceptance including Japanese language proficiency, information on any
          entrance examinations conducted by the university, the period when overseas students may enroll and
          start their studies, etc.
Note 6:   Applicants must submit the following documents according to his/her academic background:
             (a) Applicants who are attending, or have graduated from, an upper secondary school: an academic
                  transcript from the upper secondary school;
             (b) Applicants who are attending, or have already graduated from, a university: academic transcripts
                  from both the upper secondary school and the university.
          The academic transcripts should show the grade scale applied and the grades earned by the applicant in
          all the subjects studied for each year of study at the school or the university. Those who are currently
          attending an upper secondary school or a university must also submit the academic transcript that covers
          the period from the year of enrollment to the term for which grades have been determined at the time of
          application for the scholarship. Those who are attending an upper secondary school or a university must
          also submit a transcript to the Japanese diplomatic mission when he/she graduates from that school or
          university by the time of enrollment. In the case that the last school offers a single-structure education
          system consisting of a lower and upper secondary level or a primary and secondary level, the necessary
          academic transcripts to be submitted shall cover all school years of upper secondary education.
Note 7:   Applicants must submit the following documents according to his/her academic background:
             (a) Applicants who are attending an upper secondary school: a certificate of prospective graduation
                  from the upper secondary school;
             (b) Applicants who have already graduated from an upper secondary school: a certificate of graduation
                  from the upper secondary school;
             (c) Applicants who are attending a university: a certificate of graduation from the upper secondary

                                                       - 8 -
                school (in addition, they must submit a ⑦certificate of enrollment.);
            (d) Applicants who have already graduated from a university: certificates of graduation from both the
                upper secondary school and the university.
         A copy of the graduation certificate and the certificate of university enrollment qualification examination
         is acceptable if the copy is attested by an authorized official of the university or an examination authority.
         Do not submit the originals as the submitted documents will not be returned. Those who are attending an
         upper secondary school or a university must also promptly submit a certificate of graduation to the
         Japanese diplomatic mission by the time of enrollment.
Note 8: A recommendation letter for those who are attending an upper secondary school or a university should be
         issued by that school or university they are attending. A recommendation letter for those who graduated
         from an upper secondary school or a university should be issued by that school or university.
Note 9: If the applicant’s health condition changes (including any serious changes relating to his/her life plan)
         after he/she has submitted his/her health certificate, the applicant needs to promptly share such
         information with the Japanese diplomatic mission since it concerns the acceptance system of the accepting
         university and Japanese medical institution.
Note 10: For applicants with “⑧Certificate of university entrance qualification examination”, this document may
         be submitted in place of documents No. ③, ④ and ⑤.
Note 11: Only if an applicant has a completed certificate document of Japanese-language ability or English-
         language ability that shows his/her name and level/score, enter necessary information in “19. Japanese
         language qualifications” and “20. English language qualifications” of the Application Form and submit a
         copy of the certificate. In case of printing out the certificate from the Internet, print out and submit a page
         showing the applicant’s name and the details of the relevant qualification (level, score, etc.). The date of
         issue of the certificate should be no earlier than two years from the date of application (“Date of
         application” entered on the last page of the application form) to the Japanese diplomatic mission.
（Note 12:）If documents are submitted in bound form, they may be dismantled during the review process.

11. UNAVOIDABLE CIRCUMSTANCES
In the event of unavoidable or unforeseen circumstances, the Japanese Government reserves the right to change or
cancel the arrival date, scholarship, and contents of the application guidelines herein, at any time before or after
notification of the results of the final selection.
Unavoidable Circumstances are defined as events whose effects could not reasonably be prevented or controlled by
MEXT or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (including Embassies and Consulate generals of Japan) including but not
limited to acts of God, acts of government (including local government, hereafter also referred to as government),
acts of government authorities (including limitations on travel or immigration enacted by the Japanese government
or other foreign countries’ government due to the event of infectious disease), compliance with law, regulations or
orders, fire, flooding and torrential rain, earthquakes, acts of war (regardless of a declaration of war), revolt,
revolution or rebellion, strike, or lockout.


12. NOTES
(1) The grantees should learn, before departing for Japan, the Japanese language, and acquire information about
    Japanese weather, climate, customs, university education, and conditions of the university the grantees will
    attend in Japan, as well as about the differences between the Japanese legal system and that of his/her home
    country.

(2) As the first installment of the scholarship payment will be made from one month to one and a half months after
    the grantee’s arrival in Japan, the grantee is recommended to bring at least approximately US$2,000 with him/her
    to Japan to cover immediate living expenses and other necessary expenses.

(3) The scholarship payments will be transferred to the bank account at Japan Post Bank (JP Bank) opened by each
    grantee after the arrival in Japan. MEXT will not transfer the scholarship payments to other accounts.

(4) Grantees who have tested positive for infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, following a medical exam

                                                         - 9 -
   must be treated before arrival in Japan. Grantee’s arrival in Japan will not be approved if he/she is not fully
   recovered by the time of arrival.

(5) Grantees must enroll in the National Health Insurance program (Kokumin Kenko Hoken) upon arrival in Japan.
(6) It is suggested that grantees acquire an “Individual Number Card (My Number Card)” upon arrival in Japan.

(7) Accommodations:
    ① During the period of preparatory education, grantees can reside in the residential accommodations of the
      preparatory educational institution. Expenses relating to accommodations will be borne by the grantee.
    ② Residence halls for international students provided by universities: Some universities have residence halls
      for international students. The grantees enrolled at such universities may reside at these residence halls under
      certain conditions. However, due to the limited number of rooms, some of these facilities may be unavailable.
      Expenses relating to accommodations will be borne by the grantee.
    ③ Private boarding houses or apartments: Those who are unable to find accommodation in the aforementioned
      facilities may live in regular dormitories of the university or in private boarding houses/apartments at his/her
      expense. It may be difficult for grantees with dependents (spouse and children) to find appropriate housing
      in Japan. The grantee is requested to arrive in Japan alone first to secure housing before having his/her
      dependent(s) come to Japan.

(8) Information regarding the MEXT Scholarship Students (name, gender, date of birth, nationality, accepting
    university/graduate school/undergraduate school, field of specialty, period of enrolment, career path after
    completion of scholarship, contact information [address, telephone number, e-mail address]) may be shared with
    other relevant government organizations for the purpose of utilization in international students programs
    implemented by the Japanese Government (support during period of study in Japan, follow-up survey,
    improvement of the international student system).
    Information regarding MEXT Scholarship Students (excluding date of birth and contact information) may be
    included in publicity materials prepared by the Japanese Government for promoting the acceptance of
    international students in Japan, particularly in order to introduce former MEXT Scholarship Students who are
    playing active roles in countries around the world.
    These matters are included in the Pledge stipulating rules and regulations which MEXT Scholarship Students
    must comply with and submit when they have been granted the Scholarship. Those who consent to these
    conditions will be admitted as a MEXT Scholarship Student.

(9) In principle, receiving another scholarship from an organization (including a government organization of the
    applicant’s home country) other than the Japanese government (MEXT or other Japanese government
    organization) is permitted. However, since some scholarships from organizations other than the Japanese
    government (MEXT or other government agency) cannot be paid concurrently (e.g., scholarships or fellowships
    funded by Japanese government–related organizations), applicants should consult with the Japanese diplomatic
    mission in the home country in advance.

(10) If an applicant is judged not to meet the conditions for landing in Japan, he/she may be rejected.

(11) The English versions of the Application Guidelines and the Application Form are attached for your convenience.
    The English texts are translations and do not change the content of the original Japanese.

(12) If there are any questions about the content of the written text in this Application Guidelines or any other
   matters, applicants/grantees should inquire at the Japanese diplomatic mission in the country of the applicant’s
   nationality and follow their instructions.

(13) In addition to the regulations stipulated in this Application Guidelines, those that are necessary to implement
   the Japanese Government Scholarship programs shall be determined by the Japanese Government.




                                                       - 10 -
