A-12011/1/2026-ESTT-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                                      I/70527/2026




                                         LAKSHADWEEP ADMINISTRATION
                                       DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
                                              KAVARATTI 682 555
                 F.No.A-12011/1/2026-ESTT-AH                          Dated                .09.2026

                                                    EMPLOYMENT NOTICE

                      The Department of Animal Husbandry, Union Territory of Lakshadweep
                 Administration hereby invites applications from willing and eligible candidates
                 possessing the following educational qualifications for the engagement of one
                 Veterinary Assistant Surgeon (VAS) purely on a contract basis for a period of 11
                 months, on a consolidated remuneration of Rs.50,000/- (Fifty thousand) per month. No
                 other allowances shall be payable.



                 1.     Essential Educational Qualifications:

                      (i)    Bachelor’s Degree in Veterinary Science & Animal Husbandry (B.V.Sc. & A.H.)
                             from a University/Institute recognised by the Govt. of India.
                      (ii)   Registered with the Veterinary Council of India, State Veterinary Council or
                             Union Territory Veterinary Council. A valid Registration Certificate to this
                             effect shall be submitted along with the application.

                 2.    Age Limit: No specific upper age limit for engagement of VAS on contract basis,
                      subject to the candidate being medically fit and otherwise fulfilling the prescribed
                      eligibility conditions.

                 3.     Terms & Conditions

                      1. The contractual appointment shall be for a period of 11 months.
                      2. Re-engagement of the same candidate may be considered based on the
                         candidate’s performance and the requirements of the Department.
                      3. The selected candidate may be posted to any of the Animal Husbandry Units.
                         No Travelling Allowance (TA) shall be paid for joining the post.
                      4. Applications received without the supporting documents shall be rejected.
                      5. The selected candidate shall have no right or claim for regular appointment in
                         the Department on the basis of this contractual engagement.
                      6. The Department of Animal Husbandry, Lakshadweep, reserves the right to
                         terminate the contractual engagement at any time without assigning any
                         reason.
                      7. The selected candidate shall enter into an agreement in the prescribed
                         proforma and shall abide by all instructions/guidelines issued by the
                         Department from time to time.
                      8. The Department of Animal Husbandry, Lakshadweep, reserves the right to
                         cancel this notification at any time without assigning any reason.


                                                                                                Cont..P 2/-
A-12011/1/2026-ESTT-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                                 I/70527/2026

                                                               -2-


                         The willing and eligible candidates shall submit their applications in the
                 prescribed form (Annexure-A) along with supporting documents relating to educational
                 qualifications, Veterinary Council Registration Certificate, etc., to the Director,
                 Department of Animal Husbandry, UT of Lakshadweep Administration, Kavaratti
                 – 682555, either in person or through email at adpoultrykvt@gmail.com. The
                 applications shall reach the office on or before 28.09.2026. The selected candidate
                 shall produce the original certificates at the time of joining for verification.


                       The Department of Animal Husbandry will communicate the date and time of the
                 virtual interview and the interview link to the shortlisted candidates through their
                 respective email IDs furnished in the application form.

                       This is issued with the approval of competent authority.




                                                                      (Mukund Vallabh Joshi, DANICS)
                                                                           Director (Animal Husbandry)
                 To

                       The Notice Board in all offices

                 Copy to:-

                       1. The Director, Information & Public Relations, U.T. of Lakshadweep with
                          request to publish in the immediate next issue of Lakshadweep Times.
                       2. The Deputy Collectors / Block Development Officers in Islands with request
                          for giving wide publicity in the respective islands.
                       3. The Unit in charge, Dept. of Animal Husbandry in Islands to display with
                          direction to give wide publicity in the respective islands.
                       4. The IT Coordinator to upload in the Lakshadweep Administration website.
                       5. PA to Secretary (Animal Husbandry) Kavaratti for information.
A-12011/1/2026-ESTT-ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                                               I/70527/2026




                     Application Form for the post of Veterinary Assistant                            Affix passport
                      Surgeon on contract basis in U.T. of Lakshadweep                                size
                                                                                                      photograph

                                          To be filled by candidates


                  1.      Full name (in capital letters):

                   2.     Father’s/Mother’s Name:
                          Date of birth and age:
                   3.


                          Permanent address:
                   4.



                          Address for communication:

                   5.
                          E-mail ID:

                          Contact number:


                 6. Details of Educational Qualification (with self-attested copies):

                  Sl.                                                                                 Year of
                                   Qualification            Name of University/ Institution
                  No.                                                                                 Passing




                7. Registration Certificate from Veterinary Council of India/ State/UT( with self-
                   attested copy):

                                                              Registration          Year of
                         Veterinary Council Details                                                  Valid upto
                                                               Number             registration

               Declaration: I certify that the information furnished above are true and correct to the best of my
               knowledge and belief. If any information furnished above is found to be false at any time, I will
               be liable for action and my candidature will be forfeitured.

               Place:
               Date:
                                                                                                 Name & Signature
