               Important Instructions / Clauses for Online Examination

DOWNLOAD OF CALL LETTER

Candidates will have to visit the www.mecl.co.in website for downloading call letters for online test.
Intimation for downloading call letter will also be sent through email/SMS. Once the candidate clicks
the relevant link, he/she can access the window for call letter download. The candidate is required to
use (i) Registration Number/Roll Number, (ii) Password/Date of Birth for downloading the call letter.
Candidate needs to affix recent recognizable photograph on the call letter preferably the same as
provided during registration and appear at the examination centre with (i) Call Letter (ii) Photo Identity
Proof as stipulated in clause (xiii) below and also specified in the call letter and photocopy of the same
Photo Identity Proof as brought in original.

CANDIDATES REPORTING LATE i.e. after the reporting time specified on the call letter for
Examination will not be permitted to take the examination. The reporting time mentioned on the call
letter is prior to the Start time of the test. Though the duration of the examination is 02 hours, candidates
may be required to be at the venue for about 4 hours including the time required for completion of
various formalities such as verification and collection of various requisite documents, logging in, giving
of instructions.


IDENTITY VERIFICATION

In the examination hall as well as at the time of interview, the call letter along with original and a
photocopy of the candidate’s currently valid photo identity (bearing exactly the same name as it
appears on the call letter) such as PAN Card/ Passport/ Permanent Driving Licence/ Voter’s Card/
Bank Passbook with photograph/ Photo identity proof issued by a Gazzetted Officer on official
letterhead along with photograph / Photo identity proof issued by a People’s Representative on official
letterhead along with photograph / valid recent Identity Card issued by a recognized College/
University/ Aadhar card/ E-Aadhar Card with a photograph/ Employee ID/ Bar Council Identity Card
with photograph should be submitted to the invigilator for verification. The candidate’s identity will be
verified with respect to his/her details on the call letter, in the Attendance List and requisite documents
submitted. If identity of the candidate is in doubt the candidate may not be allowed to appear for the
Examination.
Ration Card and Learner’s Driving License are not valid id proof.

Note: Candidates have to produce in original the photo identity proof and submit photocopy of the
photo identity proof along with Examination call letter as well as the Interview Call Letter while attending
the examination/ interview respectively, without which they will not be allowed to take up the
examination/ interview. Candidates must note that the name as appearing on the call letter (provided
during the process of registration) should exactly match the name as appearing on the photo identity
proof. Female candidates who have changed first/last/middle name post marriage must take special
note of this. If there is any mismatch between the name indicated in the Call Letter and Photo Identity
Proof the candidate will not be allowed to appear for the examination. In case of candidates who have
changed their name, will be allowed only if they produce original Gazette notification / their original
marriage certificate / affidavit in original.

   CENTRE CLAUSES:

   1. The examination will be conducted online in venues given in the respective call letters.
   2. No request for change of centre/venue/date/session for Examination shall be entertained.
   3. MECL, however, reserves the right to cancel any of the Examination Centres and/ or add some
      other Centres, at its discretion, depending upon the response, administrative feasibility, etc.
   4. MECL also reserves the right to allot the candidate to any centre other than the one he/she
      has opted for.
   5. Candidate will appear for the examination at an Examination Centre at his/her own risks and
      expenses and MECL will not be responsible for any injury or losses etc. of any nature.
   6. Choice of centre once exercised by the candidate will be final.


If sufficient number of candidates does not opt for a particular centre for "Online" examination, MECL
reserves the right to allot any other adjunct centre to those candidates OR if the number of candidates
is more than the capacity available for online exam for a centre, MECL reserves the right to allot any
other centre to the candidate.

 GUIDELINES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES USING A SCRIBE

 The visually impaired candidates and candidates whose writing speed is adversely affected
permanently for any reason can use their own scribe at their cost during the online examination, subject
to limits as in (ii) and (iii) below. In all such cases where a scribe is used, the following rules will apply:

• The candidate will have to arrange his/her own scribe at his/her own cost.
• The scribe arranged by the candidate should not be a candidate for the same examination. If violation
of the above is detected at any stage of the process, candidature of both the candidate and the scribe
will be cancelled. Candidates eligible for and who wish to use the services of a scribe in the examination
should invariably carefully indicate the same in the online application form. Any subsequent request
may not be favourably entertained.
• A person acting as a scribe for one candidate cannot be a scribe for another candidate.
• The scribe may be from any academic stream. However for Specialist Officers’ posts the scribe should
be from an academic stream different from that prescribed for the post.
• Both the candidate as well as scribe will have to give a suitable undertaking confirming that the scribe
fulfils all the stipulated eligibility criteria for a scribe mentioned above. Further in case it later transpires
that he/she did not fulfill any laid down eligibility criteria or suppressed material facts the candidature of
the applicant will stand cancelled, irrespective of the result of the online examination.
• Those candidates who use a scribe shall be eligible for compensatory time of 20 minutes for every
hour of the examination or as otherwise advised.
Scribe should not answer on his/her own. Any such behaviour observed will result in cancellation of
candidature
• Only candidates registered for compensatory time will be allowed such concessions since
compensatory time given to candidates shall be system based; it shall not be possible for the test
conducting agency to allow such time if he / she is not registered for the same. Candidates not
registered for compensatory time shall not be allowed such concessions.
  • During the exam, at any stage, if it is found that scribe is independently answering the questions, the
  exam session will be terminated and candidate’s candidature will be cancelled. The candidature of such
  candidates using the services of a scribe will also be cancelled if it is reported after the examination by
  the test administrator personnel that the scribe independently answered the questions.

  (ii) Guidelines for Candidates with locomotor disability and cerebral palsy

  A compensatory time of twenty minutes per hour or otherwise advised shall be permitted for the
  candidates with locomotor disability and cerebral palsy where dominant (writing) extremity is affected
  to the extent of slowing the performance of function (minimum of 40%impairment).

  (iii) Guidelines for Visually Impaired candidates
        • Visually Impaired candidates (who suffer from not less than 40% of disability) may opt to view
          the contents of the test in magnified font and all such candidates will be eligible for compensatory
          time of 20 minutes for every hour or otherwise advised of examination.

      •   The facility of viewing the contents of the test in magnifying font will be available to Visually
          Impaired candidates.

  These guidelines are subject to change in terms of GOI guidelines/ clarifications, if any, from time to
  time.

OTHER CLAUSES

1. The possibility of occurrence of some problem in the administration of the examination cannot be ruled
out completely which may impact test delivery and/or result from being generated. In that event, every
effort will be made to rectify such problem, which may include movement of candidates, delay in test.
Conduct of a re-exam is at the absolute discretion of test conducting body. Candidates will not have any
claim for a re-test. Candidates not willing to move or not willing to participate in the delayed process of
test delivery shall be summarily rejected from the process.

2. Decision of MECL in all matters relating to recruitment will be final and binding on the candidate. No
correspondence or personal enquiries shall be entertained by the MECL in this behalf.

3. If the examination is held in more than one session, the scores across various sessions will be equated
to adjust for slight differences in difficulty level of different test batteries used across sessions. More than
one session are required if the nodes capacity is less or some technical disruption takes place at any
center or for any candidate.

4. MECL would be analyzing the responses (answers) of individual candidates with those of other
candidates to detect patterns of similarity of right and wrong answers. If in the analytical procedure
adopted by MECL in this regard, it is inferred/ concluded that the responses have been shared and scores
obtained are not genuine/ valid, MECL reserves right to cancel the candidature of the concerned
candidates and the result of such candidates (disqualified) will be withheld.

5. Instances for providing incorrect information and/or process violation by a candidate detected at any
stage of the selection process will lead of disqualification of the candidate from the selection process and
he/she will not be allowed to appear in any MECL recruitment process in the future. If such instances go
undetected during the current selection process but are detected subsequently, such disqualification will
take place with retrospective affect.

6.   Process for Arriving at Scores

     The Scores of Online Examination are obtained by adopting the following procedure:

            (i)       Number of questions answered correctly by a candidate in each objective test is considered
                      for arriving at the Corrected Score after applying penalty for wrong answers.
            (ii)      The Corrected Scores so obtained by a candidate are made equivalent to take care of the
                      minor difference in difficulty level, if any, in each of the objective tests held in different
                      sessions to arrive at the Equated Scores*

     * Scores obtained by candidates on any test are equated to the base form by considering the
     distribution of scores of all the forms.
      (iii) Testwise scores and scores on total is reported with decimal point upto two digits.

     Note: Cutoffs are applied in two stages:

       i.          on scores in individual tests
      ii.          on Total Score


     7. As per policy, the tests/question papers are not disclosed to anybody other than the candidates only
     during the examination. The test papers are also not shared with anybody even after the examination.

     Please note that a candidate is allowed to appear only once in the online examination for a post. Multiple
     appearance in online examination will result in cancellation of candidature. In case more than one call
     letter has been generated, candidates are advised to appear only once for one post on the date and at
     the time mentioned on the respective call letter.


     HOW TO APPLY

     DETAILED GUIDELINES/PROCEDURES FOR

            A. APPLICATION REGISTRATION
            B. PAYMENT OF FEES
            C. DOCUMENT SCAN AND UPLOAD

     Candidates can apply online only from 12-09-2026 to 11-10-2026 and no other mode of
     application will be accepted.

     IMPORTANT POINTS TO BE NOTED BEFORE REGISTRATION

     Before applying online, candidates should-

             (i)      scan their :
                         - photograph (4.5cm × 3.5cm)
                         - signature (with black ink)
                         - left thumb impression (on white paper with black or blue ink)
             -  a hand written declaration (on a white paper with black ink) (text given below)
                ensuring that the all these scanned documents adhere to the required
                specifications as given in Point C.
   (ii)  Signature in CAPITAL LETTERS will NOT be accepted.
   (iii) The left thumb impression should be properly scanned and not smudged. (If a
         candidate is not having left thumb, he/she may use his/ her right thumb for applying.)
   (iv) The text for the hand written declaration is as follows –
         “I, _______ (Name of the candidate), hereby declare that all the information submitted
         by me in the application form is correct, true and valid. I will present the supporting
         documents as and when required.”
   (v)   The above mentioned hand written declaration has to be in the candidate’s hand
         writing and in English only. If it is written and uploaded by anybody else or in any
         other language, the application will be considered as invalid. (In the case of Visually
         Impaired candidates who cannot write may get the text of declaration typed and put their
         left hand thumb impression below the typed declaration and upload the document as per
         specifications.)
   (vi) Keep the necessary details/documents ready to make Online Payment of the requisite
         application fee/ intimation charges
   (vii) Have a valid personal email ID and mobile no., which should be kept active till the
         completion of this Recruitment Process. Bank may send intimation to download call
         letters for the Examination etc. through the registered e-mail ID. In case a candidate
         does not have a valid personal e-mail ID, he/she should create his/her new e-mail ID
         and mobile no. before applying on-line and must maintain that email account and
         mobile number.

   APPLICATION FEES/ INTIMATION CHARGES (NON-REFUNDABLE) PAYMENT OF FEE
   ONLINE: -12-09-2026 TO 11-10-2026
Bank Transaction charges for Online Payment of application fees/intimation charges will have to be
borne by the candidate.

   A. Application Registration
        1. The Candidates are required to apply through the portal only accessible from Link which
            will be available on MECL website(www.mecl.co.in) under “Careers” Section under “
            Advertisement Notices & Result “ Tab. Candidates to click on the option "APPLY
            ONLINE" which will open a new screen.
        2. To register application, choose the tab "Click here for New Registration" and enter
            Name, Contact details and Email-id. A Provisional Registration Number and Password
            will be generated by the system and displayed on the screen. Candidate should note
            down the Provisional Registration Number and Password. An Email & SMS indicating the
            Provisional Registration number and Password will also be sent.
        3. In case the candidate is unable to complete the application form in one go, he / she can
            save the data already entered by choosing "SAVE AND NEXT" tab. Prior to submission
            of the online application candidates are advised to use the "SAVE AND NEXT" facility to
            verify the details in the online application form and modify the same if required. Visually
            Impaired candidates should fill the application form carefully and verify/ get the details
            verified to ensure that the same are correct prior to final submission.
        4. Candidates are advised to carefully fill and verify the details filled in the online application
            themselves as no change will be possible/ entertained after clicking the COMPLETE
            REGISTRATION BUTTON.
         5. The Name of the candidate or his /her Father/ Husband etc. should be spelt correctly in
             the application as it appears in the Certificates/ Mark sheets/Identity proof. Any
             change/alteration found may disqualify the candidature.
         6. Validate your details and Save your application by clicking the 'Validate your details' and
             'Save & Next' button.
         7. Candidates can proceed to upload Photo & Signature as per the specifications given in
             the Guidelines for Scanning and Upload of Photograph and Signature detailed under point
             "C".
         8. Candidates can proceed to fill other details of the Application Form.
         9. Click on the Preview Tab to preview and verify the entire application form before
             'COMPLETE REGISTRATION’.
         10. Modify details, if required, and click on 'COMPLETE REGISTRATION' ONLY after
             verifying and ensuring that the photograph, signature uploaded and other details filled by
             you are correct.
         11. Click on 'Payment' Tab and proceed for payment.
         12. Click on 'Submit' button.


   B. PAYMENT OF FEES

      ONLINE MODE

         1. The application form is integrated with the payment gateway and the payment process
            can be completed by following the instructions.
         2. The payment can be made by using Debit Cards (RuPay/Visa/MasterCard/Maestro),
            Credit Cards, Internet Banking, IMPS, Cash Cards/ Mobile Wallets.
         3. After submitting your payment information in the online application form, PLEASE WAIT
            FOR THE INTIMATION FROM THE SERVER. DO NOT PRESS BACK OR REFRESH
            BUTTON IN ORDER TO AVOID DOUBLE CHARGE
         4. On successful completion of the transaction, an e-Receipt will be generated.
         5. Non-generation of 'E-Receipt' indicates PAYMENT FAILURE. On failure of payment,
            Candidates are advised to login again using their Provisional Registration Number and
            Password and repeat the process of payment.
         6. Candidates are required to take a printout of the e-Receipt and online Application Form
            containing fee details . Please note that if the same cannot be generated, online
            transaction may not have been successful.
         7. For Credit Card users: All charges are listed in Indian Rupee. If you use a non-Indian
            credit card, your bank will convert to your local currency based on prevailing exchange
            rates.
         8. To ensure the security of your data, please close the browser window once your
            transaction is completed.
         9. There is facility to print application form containing fee details after payment of
            fees.


   C. Guidelines for scanning and Upload of Documents

Before applying online, a candidate will be required to have a scanned (digital) image of his/her
photograph, signature, left thumb impression and the hand written declaration as per the
specifications given below.
Photograph Image: (4.5cm × 3.5cm)

                •
              Photograph must be a recent passport style colour picture.
                •
              Make sure that the picture is in colour, taken against a light-coloured, preferably
              white, background.
           • Look straight at the camera with a relaxed face
           • If the picture is taken on a sunny day, have the sun behind you, or place yourself in
              the shade, so that you are not squinting and there are no harsh shadows
           • If you have to use flash, ensure there's no "red-eye"
           • If you wear glasses make sure that there are no reflections and your eyes can be
              clearly seen.
           • Caps, hats and dark glasses are not acceptable. Religious headwear is allowed but
              it must not cover your face.
           • Dimensions 200 x 230 pixels (preferred)
           • Size of file should be between 20kb–50 kb
           • Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 50kb. If the size of the
              file is more than 50 kb, then adjust the settings of the scanner such as the DPI
              resolution, no. of colours etc., during the process of scanning.
Photograph Capture

            •
            In addition to the above photograph, candidates will also be required to capture and
            upload their live photograph either by using webcam or mobile phone.
         • On selecting “Capture Photo” option, candidates’ webcam will be activated allowing
            them to click their picture, which will get auto uploaded in the application form.
         • On selecting “Click here to Scan” option, candidates can use their mobile phone to scan
            the QR code, which will redirect to a website, allowing to click photograph on their
            mobile phone. On selecting the taken picture, photograph will get auto uploaded in the
            application form.
Do’s and Don’ts of Photo Capture

Dos:

            •   Ensure the photo is captured against a light coloured, preferably white background and
                there is adequate light.
            •   Look straight at the webcam/ camera.
            •   Photograph should be of passport size.
Don’ts

            •  Small size photograph not to be clicked/ uploaded.
            •  Coloured glasses or sunglasses/ Cap should not be worn.
            •  Shadow on face/ not facing the camera/ distorted face/ face covered with mask / blurred
               image.
            • Photo not taken in dark/ improper background.
         Signature, left thumb impression and hand-written declaration Image:

                •   The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen.
                  o Dimensions 140 x 60 pixels (preferred)
                  o Size of file should be between 10kb – 20kb for signature and 20kb - 50kb for
                    left thumb impression.
                  o Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 20kb

           •   The applicant has to put his left thumb impression on a white paper with black or
               blue ink.
                    o File type: jpg / jpeg
                    o Dimensions: 240 x 240 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred for required quality) i.e 3
                       cm * 3 cm (Width * Height)
                    o File Size: 20 KB – 50 KB
           •   The applicant has to write the declaration in English clearly on a white paper with
               black ink.
                    o File type: jpg / jpeg
                    o Dimensions: 800 x 400 pixels in 200 DPI (Preferred for required quality) i.e
                       10 cm * 5 cm (Width * Height)
                    o File Size: 50 KB – 100 KB
           •   The signature, left thumb impression and the hand written declaration should be of
               the applicant and not by any other person.
           •   If the Applicant’s signature on the attendance sheet or Call letter, signed at the time
               of the examination, does not match the signature uploaded, the applicant will be
               disqualified.
           •   Signature / Hand written declaration in CAPITAL LETTERS shall NOT be accepted.


Scanning the documents:

          o    Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 200 dpi (dots per inch)
          o    Set Colour to True Colour
          o    File Size as specified above
          o    Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the photograph/signature/ left thumb
               impression / hand written declaration, then use the upload editor to crop the image
               to the final size (as specified above).
          o    The image file should be JPG or JPEG format. An example file name is: image01.jpg
               or image01.jpeg. Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder files or
               moving the mouse over the file image icon.
          o    Candidates using MS Windows/MSOffice can easily obtain documents in .jpeg
               format by using MS Paint or MSOffice Picture Manager. Scanned documents in
               any format can be saved in .jpg / .jpeg format by using ‘Save As’ option in
               the File menu. Size can be adjusted by using crop and then resize option.


Procedure for Uploading the documents
           o While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will be provided with
             separate links for uploading Photograph, signature, left thumb impression and
             hand written declaration
              o Click on the respective link “Upload Photograph / signature / Upload left thumb
                impression / hand written declaration”
             o Browse and Select the location where the Scanned Photograph / signature / left
                thumb impression / hand written declaration file has been saved.
             o      Select the file by clicking on it
             o      Click the ‘Open/Upload’
             o      If the file size and format are not as prescribed, an error message will be displayed.
             o      Preview of the uploaded image will help to see the quality of the image. In case of
                    unclear / smudged, the same may be re-uploaded to the expected clarity /quality.

        Your Online Application will not be registered unless you upload your Photograph, signature,
        left thumb impression and hand written declaration as specified.

Note:

              (1)    In case the face in the photograph or signature or left thumb impression or the
                     hand written declaration is unclear / smudged the candidate’s application may be
                     rejected.
              (2)    After uploading the Photograph / signature / left thumb impression / hand written
                     declaration in the online application form candidates should check that the images
                     are clear and have been uploaded correctly. In case the photograph or signature
                     or left thumb impression or the hand written declaration is not prominently visible,
                     the candidate may edit his/ her application and re-upload his/ her photograph or
                     signature or left thumb impression or the hand written declaration, prior to
                     submitting the form.
              (3)    Candidate should also ensure that photo is uploaded at the place of photo and
                     signature at the place of signature. If photo in place of photo and signature in place
                     of signature is not uploaded properly, candidate will not be allowed to appear for
                     the exam.
              (4)    Candidate must ensure that Photo to be uploaded is of required size and the face
                     should be clearly visible.
              (5)    If the photo is not uploaded at the place of Photo Admission for Examination will
                     be rejected/denied. Candidate him/herself will be responsible for the same.
              (6)    Candidates should ensure that the signature uploaded is clearly visible
              (7)    After registering online candidates are advised to take a printout of their system
                     generated online application forms.



. ACTION AGAINST CANDIDATES FOUND GUILTY OF MISCONDUCT/ USE OF UNFAIR MEANS


Candidates are advised in their own interest that they should not furnish any particulars that are false,
tampered with or fabricated and should not suppress any material information while submitting online
application. At the time of examination, interview or in a subsequent selection procedure, if a
candidate is (or has been ) found guilty of –
(i) using unfair means or
(ii) impersonating or procuring impersonation by any person or
(iii) misbehaving in the examination/ interview hall or disclosing, publishing, reproducing, transmitting,
         storing or facilitating transmission and storage of contents of the test(s) or any information
         therein in whole or part thereof in any form or by any means, verbal or written, electronically
         or mechanically for any purpose or
(iv) resorting to any irregular or improper means in connection with his/ her candidature or
(v) obtaining support for his/ her candidature by unfair means, or
(vi) carrying mobile phones or similar electronic devices of communication in the examination/
interview hall, such a candidate may, in addition to rendering himself/ herself liable to criminal
prosecution, be liable:
            (a) to be disqualified from the examination for which he/ she is a candidate
              (b) to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period from any examination
conducted by bank
            (c) for termination of service, if he/ she has already joined the Bank.
