                           NATIONAL LAW SCHOOL OF INDIA UNIVERSITY
                                NAGARBHAVI, BANGALORE-560 242

                            Notification No.16/2026 dated 18.9.2026

                      Recruitment for Associate Professor (Law) at the
                     National Law School of India University, Bangalore

The National Law School of India University (NLSIU) was established in 1987 to be a pioneer
in legal education. Over the last three decades the University has evolved as an innovative leader
in law, social sciences, humanities, and public policy education and research in India. It has also
been ranked first among the law universities in the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF)
for the last eight years.
To sustain this leadership, the University invites applications from exceptionally well-qualified
individuals, dedicated to academic teaching, scholarship, and institutional service for the
following positions:

          Name of Post                       Associate Professor (Law)
                              All major Law subjects including Contracts, Property,
                              Criminal Law, Torts, Law of Evidence, Constitutional
                              Law, Administrative Law, Intellectual Property Rights,
         Subject Areas
                              Company Law, Labour Law, Public International Law,
          (Indicative)
                              Human Rights, Family Law, Jurisprudence, Civil
                              Procedure, Drafting, Environmental Law, Taxation Law,
                              Alternative Dispute Resolution, Conflict of Laws,
                              Financial Sector Regulation, International Trade Law
            Vacancies                    4 (3 Unreserved, 1 Scheduled Caste)
         Pay Structure                       Level 13A, As per VII CPC

                              Permanent basis till the age of superannuation i.e. 65 years,
          Appointment         subject to confirmation after the satisfactory completion of
                              two years’ probation.

         Qualifications       As prescribed in Sections I and II.1 of Appendix A



          General Conditions:
    1.    Foreign nationals/OCI/NRI/PIO are permitted to apply. If selected, the confirmation of
          the candidate’s appointment shall be subject to obtaining necessary visa approvals as
          prescribed by the Government of India.
    2.    The prescribed essential qualifications/experience indicated are the bare minimum.
          Merely possessing this qualification/experience will not entitle the candidate(s) to be
          called for an interview.
    3.    The qualification prescribed in the table above should have been obtained from
          recognized Universities/ Institutions.
    4.    Interested candidates are required to submit applications through online mode only by
          completing the Application Form and uploading copies of all required certificates.
          Without these certificates, the application form will not be considered.
    5.    Candidates shall have to produce original documents at the time of joining,
    6.    Candidates serving in Government/ Public Sector Undertakings (including Boards/
          Autonomous Bodies) are required to submit their ‘No objection Certificate’ from their
          current employer at the time of interview, if not submitted earlier.
    7.    Where the number of applications received in response to this advertisement is large
          and it may not be convenient or possible for NLSIU to interview all the candidates,
          NLSIU reserves the right to restrict the number of candidates to be called for interviews
          to a reasonable limit.
    8.    No correspondence whatsoever will be entertained from candidates regarding
          conduct/result of the interview and reasons for not being called for an interview.
    9.    Canvassing in any form/bringing in any influence political or otherwise will be treated
          as a disqualification for the Post.
    10.   NLSIU is an equal opportunity employer, and we value diversity at our institution.
    11.   NLSIU reserves the right of not filling the post advertised and/or filling vacancies
          irrespective of the post applied for.
    12.   If information given in an application is found to be incorrect/false, at any stage, the
          Candidature is liable to be cancelled and any appointment made is also liable to be
          terminated.
    13.   The last date for submission of the application is October 26, 2026 at 17:00 hrs IST.
    14.   The shortlisted candidates will be intimated through email.
    15.   Incomplete forms or forms without the required information will not be considered.


Interested individuals are requested to go through the University’s website, fill in the Application
Form and upload the certificates to support their claim for educational qualifications, age,
experience etc. on or before October 26, 2026 (17:00 hrs IST).
For any clarifications in this regard, you may contact the University at recruitment@nls.ac.in




Bangalore                                                                      REGISTRAR
18 September 2026
Appendix A


                    NATIONAL LAW SCHOOL OF INDIA UNIVERSITY, BANGALORE
     MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR RECRUITMENT TO REGULAR POSTS OF TEACHERS IN THE
                                    UNIVERSITY
                                     (PER UGC REGULATIONS, 2018)1


     I.   Essential Qualifications for All Posts


1.        A Master‘s Degree with at least 55% marks (or an equivalent grade in a point-scale,
          wherever the grading system is followed).
2.        A relaxation of 5% may be provided at the graduate and master’s level for the Scheduled
          Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Differently-abled categories for the purpose of eligibility and
          for assessing good academic record during direct recruitment to teaching positions.
3.        A relaxation of 5%, may be provided, to the Ph.D Degree holders, who have obtained their
          Master’s Degree prior to 19 September, 1991.
4.        The eligibility marks of 55% marks or an equivalent grade in a point scale prescribed by
          these regulations and the relaxation of 5% to the categories mentioned above are
          permissible, based on only the qualifying marks without including any grace mark
          procedures.


 II.      Eligibility for Associate Professor post

1. Associate Professor (Law)


(i) A good academic record, with a Ph.D. Degree in the concerned/allied/relevant disciplines.
(ii) A minimum of eight years of experience of teaching and / or research in an
academic/research position equivalent to that of Assistant Professor in a University, College or
Accredited Research Institution/industry with a minimum of seven publications in peer-
reviewed journals and a total research score of Seventy five (75) as per the criteria as per the
UGC Regulations, 2018.




 1
  UGC Regulations on Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universities and
 Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education, 2018
