                          Plan of Written Examination of Advertisement No 04 of 2026

All the aspirants are informed as under with respect to the written test to be conducted for the recruitment
of Group D (Advt No. 04 of 2026) post:-

1.          The Exam will be conducted in MCQ (Multiple Choice Questions) format. OMR sheets will be
            used for answering the questions.

2.          The Exam would be of 2 hours 30 minutes duration.

3.          The Exam will consist of two parts (Part A and Part B) as follows:

(a) Part A:- Qualifying test of Punjabi Language equivalent to Matriculation standard as per Notification
No. G.S.R.75/Const./Art. 309/Amd.(7)/2022, dated 04.11.2022

 Part Topic                                     No          of Marks (Each question Type of questions
                                                Questions      Carries 1 Mark)


 A       Punjabi     (Qualifying     Nature) 50                50                       MCQs (Multiple Choice
         (Annexure-1)                                                                   questions)
         Note:-(i) There will be no negative marking in Part-A.

                  (ii) Part 'B' will be evaluated only if a candidate scores minimum 50% marks (i.e 25
                  marks) in Part 'A'

(b) Part-B:- Part-B will consist of Questions from General Knowledge and Current Affairs, Punjab History

              and Culture, Logical Reasoning & Mental Ability, Punjabi, English and ICT

 Part Topic                                   No          of Marks   (Each     question Type of questions
                                              Questions      Carries 1 Mark)
 B       Questions      from       General 100               100                        MCQs         (Multiple
         Knowledge       and       Current                                              Choice questions)
         Affairs, Punjab History and
         Culture, Logical Reasoning &
         Mental      Ability,      Punjabi,
         English and ICT (Annexure-2)
 Total                                        100            100
         Note:- (i) There will be negative marking in Part-B. Each question carries 1 mark. For every
         wrong answer, 1/4 mark would be deducted. The question(s) not attempted will receive no
         credit or discredit.

         (ii) The merit list of candidates, who will qualify Part-'A', will be prepared on the basis of
         marks secured by candidate in Part-B.

4.       Tentative syllabus for the written examination for the recruitment of Group D (Advertisement No.
04 of 2026) post is annexed at Annexure-1 and 2.
                                Annexure-1 (Punjabi Syllabus)

                              Part-A (Punjabi Qualifying Exam)



1.    ਜੀਵਨੀ ਅਤੇ ਰਚਨਾਵ ਨਾਲ ਸਬੰ ਧਤ ਪਸ਼ਨ:-

              ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਨਾਨਕ ਦੇਵ ਜੀ, ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਅੰ ਗਦ ਦੇਵ ਜੀ, ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਰਾਮਦਾਸ ਜੀ,

              ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਅਰਜਨ ਦੇਵ ਜੀ, ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਤੇਗ ਬਹਾਦਰ ਜੀ, ਸ਼ੀ ਗੁਰੂ ਗੋਿਬੰ ਦ ਿਸੰ ਘ ਜੀ।

2.    ਿਵਰੋਧਾਰਥਕ ਸ਼ਬਦ, ਸਮਾਨਾਰਥਕ ਬਦ।

3.    ਮੁਹਾਵਰੇ।

4.    ਅਖਾਣ।

5.    ਸਬਦ ਦੇ ਭੇਦ।

6.    ਅਗੇਤਰ/ਿਪਛੇਤਰ।

7.    ਵਚਨ ਬਦਲੋ ਤੇ ਿਲੰਗ ਬਦਲੋ ।

8.    ਿਵਸ਼ਰਾਮ ਿਚੰ ਨ।

9.     ਬਦ / ਵਾਕ ੰਨੂ ਸ਼ੁੱ ਧ ਕਰਕੇ ਿਲਖੋ।

10.   ਅੰ ਗਰੇਜ਼ੀ ਬਦ ਦਾ ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ ਿਵੱ ਚ ਸ਼ੁੱ ਧ ਰੂਪ।

11.   ਅੰ ਕ , ਮਹੀਨ, ਿਦਨ ਦਾ ੁੱ ਧ ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ ਰੂਪ।

12.   ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ ਭਾਸ਼ਾ ਨਾਲ ਸਬੰ ਧਤ ਪਸ਼ਨ।

13.   ਪੰ ਜਾਬ ਦੇ ਇਿਤਹਾਸ ਨਾਲ ਸਬੰ ਧਤ ਪਸ਼ਨ।

14.   ਪੰ ਜਾਬ ਦੇ ਸਿਭਆਚਾਰ ਨਾਲ ਸਬੰ ਧਤ ਪਸ਼ਨ।
      Annexure - 2

      Part-B
Sr.     Indicative Contents of Syllabus                                      Weightage
No.                                                                          (Approx.)

        General Knowledge and Current affairs of National and
        International importance including:
            (i)    Polity issues,
            (ii)   Environment issues,
            (iii)  Current Affairs,
1.          (iv)   Science and Technology,                              25
            (v)    Economic issues,
            (vi)   History of India with special reference to Indian
                   freedom struggle movement.
            (vii) Sports,
            (viii) Cinema and Literature.
            (ix)   Geography
        Punjab History and Culture:-
        Physical features of Punjab and its ancient history. Social,
        religious and economic life in Punjab. Development of
2.      Language & literature and Arts in Punjab, Social and culture of 17
        Punjab during Afgan/Mughal Rule, Bhakti Movement, Sufism,
        Teachings/History of Sikh Gurus and Saints in Punjab. Adi
        Granth, Sikh Rulers, Freedom movements of Punjab.

        Logical Reasoning & Mental Ability:
         (i)   Logical reasoning, analytical and mental ability.(17
               Marks)
3.       (ii) Basic numerical skills, numbers, magnitudes, percentage, 25
               numerical relation appreciation. (04 Marks)
         (iii) Data analysis, Graphic presentation charts, tables,
               spreadsheets. (04 Marks)
        ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ:-
        ਸ਼ੁੱ ਧ-ਅਸ਼ੁੱ ਧ, ਸ਼ਬਦਜੋੜ, ਅਗੇਤਰ ਅਤੇ ਿਪਛੇਤਰ, ਸਮਾਨਾਰਥਕ/ਿਵਰੋਧੀ ਸ਼ਬਦ, ਨ ਵ,
4.      ਪੜਨ ਵ ਅਤੇ ਿਕਿਰਆ ਦੀਆਂ ਿਕਸਮ ਤੇ ਸਹੀ ਵਰਤ, ਿਲੰਗ ਅਤੇ ਵਚਨ, ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ 13

        ਅਖਾਣ ਤੇ ਮੁਹਾਵਰੇ, ਅੰ ਗਰੇਜੀ ਤ ਪੰ ਜਾਬੀ ਅਨੁਵਾਦ ਅਤੇ ਬਹੁਤੇ ਸ਼ਬਦ ਦੀ ਥ ਇੱ ਕ

        ਸ਼ਬਦ ਆਿਦ।
        English:-
        Basic Grammar, Subject and Verb, Adjectives and Adverbs,
        Synonyms, Antonyms, One Word Substitution, Fill in the
5.      Blanks, Correction in Sentences, Idioms and their meanings, 12
        Spell Checks, Adjectives, Articles, Prepositions, Direct and
        Indirect Speech, Active and Passive Voice, Correction in
        Sentences, etc.

        ICT:-
6.      Basics of computers, Network & Internet, Use of office 08
        productivity tools Word, Excel, Spreadsheet & PowerPoint.

        Maximum Marks                                                        100
