                                  GOVERNMENT OF PUDUCHERRY
                              PLANNING AND RESEARCH DEPARTMENT




                                             ) l\B>-
No.2-2lPRD/Estt. /A 1 /Dcpt-JD / 2026                              Puduchcrry, Dated: 1 0.09.2026

To

     1. Ail Secretaries to central Government / State Government / Union Territories.
     2. All Chairman of Statutory / Autonomous Orgalisations / Public Sector UnderterJ<ings.
                  Sub: Filling up the post of Joint Dircctor - Group-A (Gazetted, Non-
                       Ministerial) in Leve1-1O of pay Matrix in the planrring ald Research
                       Department, Puducherry on dcputation basis - Reg.

Sir/ Madam,

        Applications arc invited for Iilling up 3 posts of Joint Dircctor - Group-A (Gazetted, Non-
Ministerial) in Level-1o of the Pay Matrix (pre-revised pay scale of Rs,1s,6oo-39,1oo +
Rs.S,4OO (GP) on deputation basis from thc eligiblc oilicers of thc Ccntre[ Government or Statc
Govcrnment or Union Tcrritories or Statutory or Autonomous Organisations or public Sector
Undertakings. The applicants fulfrlling thc cligibility criteria may apply for ll.e post.

(i) Educational Qualifi cation:


     Essential

        (i) Master's degrcc in Economics/Statistics/Mathematics/ Sociolory/ Social W ork
                                                                       /l{omc
        Science/Rura1 Community Devclopmcnt/Humal Geograph/'from a recognizcd
        University.

        (ii) 3 ycars cxpcricnce in formulation of Five year plans/Annual plans a1d coordiration/
        Monitoring of plan implementation/ Evaluation of plan progrzrmmcs.

        Note 1 : Qualilicalions arc relaxable at the discretion of the union public scrvicc
        Commission for reasons to be rccorded in writing in casc of candidates olfrcrwisc wcll
        qu al iJicd.

        Note 2: The qualilication regarding expcrience is relexable at the discrction of thc Union
        Public Service Commission for reasons to be recorded in writing in the case of c:rndidatcs
        trelonging to Scheduled castes or Scheduled rribes if, at arry stagc of sclcction, thc
        Union Public Servi.ce Commission is of the opinion l.llat sufficient numbcr of cemdidatcs
        from thcsc communities possessing the requisitc expcricnce errc not likely to bc availablc
        to fill up thc vacancies reserved for them.

     Desirable:

        (i) 2 years Iie1d cxpericnce in the formulation of micro 1eve1 plans

        (ii) Speaking knowledgc of Termil.
(ii) Transfer on deputation (including short-term contract)

      Officcrs undcr thc Central / Statc Govcrnments / Union Territories / Statutory /
      Autonomous Orgalisations / Public Scctor Undcrtakings:

      (A)

      (i) Holding analogous posts on reguler basis in thc parent cadre / department; or
      (iil With 2 ycars' servicc in tJle gradc rcndered after appointment thereto on a regular
      basis in posts in tJ c pay sca1c of t9,3OO-34,800 with Grade Pay of {4,800 in Pay Band-2;
      or
      (iii) With 3 ycars' scrvicc irr the grade rendered after appointment thereto on a regular
      basis in posts in the pay scalc of {9,3OO-34,80O with Grade Pay of t4,600 in Pay Band-2;
      0r
      (iv) With 8 years' scrvicc in the gradc rendered after appointment thereto on a regular
      basis in posts in Pay Band-2 of t9,300-34,800 with Grade Pay of t4,200 in the pay
      bald;
      and

      (B) Posscssing thc educational querlilications aurd cxperience prcscribcd for direct recruits
      as specihed on Pagc no.1

      Note 1:

      Thc dcpzrtmcntell oflicers in thc fccdcr category who are in the direct line of promotion
      sha.li not bc eiigible for considcration for appointment on dcputation. Similarly, t1-e
      dcputati.onists sha11 not bc ciigiblc for considcration for appointment by promoLion.

       [Thc pcriod of deputatron (including short-term contract), including the period of
       deputation (ISTC) in another ex-cadrc post hcld immcdiately preceding this appointment
       in thc serme or zr.ny ot.l..cr orgalisation or depa-rtment of the Central Government, shzrll
       ordinarily not excecd 3 years.Thc mzrximum agc limit for appointment by deputation
       sha1l bc not excccding 56 yczrs as on t1lc closing datc of reccipt of applications.]

       Note 2:

       For thc purposc of appointmcnt on deputation / absorplion basis, the service rendercd
       on a rcguler basis by an officcr prior to 0i.01.2006, or the datc from which 1}re revised
       pay structu.rc bascd on the rccommcndations of thc Sixth Ccntrzrl Pay Commission has
       becn cxtcndcd, sha-ll be dccmcd to bc scrvice rcndered in thc corresponding Grade Pay /
       Pay Scale cxtcnded bascd on thc rccommcndations of the Commidsion except where
       therc has bcen merger of more than onc prc-revised sca-le of pay into one grade with a
       common Grade Pay / Pay Scale, and whcrc this bcnefit will extend only for the post(s) for
       which that Grade Pay/Pay scale is lhe normal replacement gradc without any
       upgradation.

 2.    tr1igrb1c ald willing ofliccrs satisfying the provisions of the Recruitment Rules for the
abovc post may apply in the prescribed application format (Annexure-A) through proper
chzmncl along with the following documents (in hardcopy) addressed to:

The Director,
Planning and Research Department,
5O5, Kamaraj Salai, Sakthi Nagar,
 Saram, Puducherry, 605013

Thc application should rcach the abovc addrcss on or before LL,ll.2O26
Documents to be enclosed are:

i. Copies of APARs for the last 5 years, attested by an officer not below the rank of Head of
Department. If APAR for any particular year is not available, the last available APAR may be
furnished along with a Non-Availability Certificate.

ii. Self attested photocopies of al1 certificates and proof of educational qualification, present alrd
past work experience in the respective post ard pay sca1e.

iii. No Objection Certi.ficate from the respective organization.

iv. Administrative Clearance from tlie concerned organization in the prescribed format
(Annexure-B).

v. Vigilance Report in the prescribed format (Annexure-C).

vi. Undertaking from the applicant stating that the candidature will not be withdrawn if
selected.

vii. Two passport size photographs

viii. Cerlihcate to the effect that no major/minor pena-lty has been imposed on the applicant
during the last 10 years.

ix. Certificate to the effect that, if the offrcer recommended is selected, he/she will be relieved to
join the new post immediately or within a maximum period of 30 days.

3.Selection shal1 be on merit, arrd the benchmark in the overall grading of the Annua-l
Confidentia-1 Reports shall not be beiow "Very Good."

4.The Planning arrd Research Depa-rtment reserves the right to accept or reject arry
candidature.

S.The period of deputation shall be 2 years from t1le date of relief from the parent
office/department or ti1l the necessity ceases, whichever is earlier. Deputation (Duty) Allowalce
is admissible as per rules.

6.The maximum age limit for appointment on deputation sha-1l not exceed 56 years as on the
closing date for receipt of applications.

T.Incomplete applications or applicalions received after the due date wi-Il not be considered.

                                                                     Yours faithfully,



                                                                          S
                                                                                         T
                                                                 DIRECTOR.CUM-
                                                         UNDER SECRETARY TO GOVT.(PLG.)

Encl.: As stated

Copy to3

1.The EDP section - to host the letter & proforma in the official website.
2.Spare copy.
                          APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF JOINT DIRECTOR
                                          PROFORMA

                                       (To be submitted in duplicate)             AfFx duty
                                                                              attested recent
                                                                               passport-size
                                                                             photograph here


1         Name (in BLOCK LETTERS)
2.        Father's / Husband's Name
3         Date of Birth & Present Age
4         Whether belongs to SC / ST / OBC /EWS/ UR
5         Address for Communication wittr Telephone / Mobile No.
6.        Academic and Professional Qualifications :
          i)Whether Educational and otl:er qualifi cations (Essential
          & Desirable) required for the post are satis{ied (If any
          qualiflcation has been treated as equivalent to the one
          prescribed in the rules, state the authority for the same).
          ii)Qualihcations / Experience possessed by the applicant
              (Self-attested copies of the documents to be enclosed)
7         Employment History and Experience in chronological
          order.
          Enclose a separate sheet, duly authenticated by your
          signature if the space below is insufficient.

           Name of tJle Ministry / Department /                           Scale of
SI,                                                        Period Period           Nature of
          Government Orgalizalion / Autonomous Designation                Pay arld
No                                                         From    To               Duties
              Body / Compa,ny / Corporation                              Basic Pay
    1

    2
    3.
    4
    5

 8         Please mention details of appreciation / outstanding work
           done, if aly, which was duly recognized by the higher
           authority.
 9.        Additional information, if any, which you would like to
           mention in support of your suitability for the post.
           Enclose a separate sheet, if the space is insufiicient
    10.    Remarks

I, hereby, solemnly declare that aI1 the statements made in the above proforma are true and
correct to the best of my knowledge-

                                                                        Signature of the Applicant

                                                                        Address

Date:
Countersigned
Employer
                                             ANNEXURE _ B


                      CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY THE HEAD OF OFFICE

Thiru / Trnt. :

Designatiorr:

Date :

   1   . It is certified that the particulars furnished by tJ:e ofticer are correct and he/she is
      fullilling the eligibility criteria.
   2. It is certified that no disciplinary / vigilance case is pending or contemplated against the
      appiicant and that he/she is clear from the Vigilance ahd Administrative angle.
   3. His/Her integrity is cerlified.
   4. It is certifred that no Major / Minor penalty has been imposed on the officer during the
         last 1O years.
   5. Copies of APARs for the last five years (2O2O-21 to 2025-261 a-re enclosed.




Date:                                                      Signature of the Foruarding Aathoritg
                                                                   dlong with Office SeaI
                                                  ANNEXURE - C


     PARTICULARS OF TIIE OFFICER FOR III}IOM VIGILANCE COMMENTS I CLEARANCE IS
                                   BEING SOUGHT

                                 (To be fumislrcd and signed by the CVO or HOD)

1.         Name of Officer (in ful1)
2.         Father's Name
3          Date of Birth
4          Date of Retirement
5.         Date of Entry into Service
6          Service to which the ollicer belongs (including batch /
             ar cadre, etc. wherever a       cable
7.         Positions held durin the ten rece           AIS



     . No.              Designation & Place of Posting                        From                 To
      1

      2.


8.         Whether the officer has been placed on the "A$eed List''
           or "List of Oflicers of Doubtful Integrity"? (If yes, details to
           be given.)
9          Whether any allegation of misconduct involving vigilance
           angle was examined against the oflicer during the last 10
           years and, if sq, with what result? (*)
10.        Whether any punishment was awarded to the officer
           during the last 10 years and, if so, the date of imposition
           and details of the pena-1ty. (*)
11.        Is any disciplinary / criminal proceeding or charge sheet
           pending against the officer as on date? (If so, details to be
           furnished including reference No., if any, of the
           Commissi on.)
1a         Is any action contemplated against the olficer as on date?
           (If so, details to be furnished )(-)


Date:

                                                                                     (Name & Signaturel



(*) If Vigilance Clearance had been obtained from the Ministry / CVC in the past, the
information may be provided for the period thereafter
