                                   Punjab State e-Governance Society
               O/o Directorate of Good Governance & Information Technology, Punjab
              D-241, Industrial Area, Phase-8B, Sector 74, Mohali- Phone - 0172-2994838


                                             Recruitment Notice

                                       Advertisement no. 02 of 2026
1. Punjab State e-Governance Society (PSeGS) under the aegis of Department of Good Governance
    & Information Technology, Punjab is executing a number of core infrastructure projects and other
    large scale transformational projects, pertaining to implementation of information technology and
    e-Governance. Applications are invited from the eligible candidates for filling the following position
    purely on contract basis initially for a period of 2 years which may be extended on a year to year
    basis, depending upon the performance of the appointee and the requirement of PSeGS:


                                                                                  Gross monthly
     SN                 Name of the Post                    No. of vacancies
                                                                                  remuneration (in Rs.)

                Deputy General Manager (Technical)
     1                                                             1                       1,25,000
                Cyber Security

                           Total                                   1


2. Eligibility and Educational qualifications required for the above said post are as under:

         SN       Name of the        Essential                       Minimum            Specialization
                  post               Qualification/Eligibility       Relevant
                                                                    Experience

                                 B.E. / B. Tech/ B.Sc in (IT/                       In the field of Cyber
                                 Computer       Science     /                       Security
         1.                      Electronics) / B.C.A from a           13 years
                  Deputy General
                                 recognized university or
                  Manager
                                 institution with minimum
                  (Technical)
                                 50%. Candidates with MBA/
                  Cyber Security
                                 PGDM/ PGDBM/ PGP in
                                 management       shall   be
                                 preferred.
     Note:- Working knowledge of Punjabi is essential. In case a candidate has not passed Punjabi at
     the Matriculation (10th) level, he/she shall be required to pass Punjabi language proficiency test
     equivalent to Matriculation standard by appearing in the examination conducted by the Punjab
     School Education Board or the Department of Languages, Government of Punjab within a period
     of six months from the date of appointment. However, if no such examination is conducted within
     the said period, the candidate shall be required to appear in and pass the same in the next available
     examination conducted by the said Board/Department.

3. Category wise bifurcation of the posts is as under:-


     SN               Name of Post                Category                        Total posts

                Deputy General Manager
      1                                           General                              1
                (Technical) Cyber Security




4. Age Criteria is as under: -

     ●        Maximum age - 42 years as on 01.08.2026.
5. Application Fees are as under:

   Candidates are required to deposit fees Rs. 2000/- through RTGS in the bank account of Punjab
   State e-Governance Society (Yes Bank Account No. 010994600000998 IFSC Code YESB0000109).
   The online link for application submission is ( https://forms.gle/JVhNwJKC44YYkdhT7 ). Applications
   sent by any other mode will not be accepted/considered and will be summarily rejected without
   intimation to the sender. Online application submission is mandatory to be completed on or before
   08.10.2026 by 11:59 PM (IST)

6. Important instructions for candidates:-
   a.   Only eligible candidates will be called to participate in the selection process Annexure-A.
        Intimation in this regard will be given via emails. A notice in this regard will also be uploaded
        on the website: https://dit.punjab.gov.in/. The applicants may, therefore, go through all the
        terms and conditions carefully before applying for the post. The onus of checking the website
        regularly shall be on the applicant.
   b.   Applications without the proof of deposit of fee (non-refundable) and / or not reflecting in the
        PSeGS     account    are   liable   to   be   rejected   summarily    without    any     intimation.
        Incomplete/ineligible applications are also liable for rejection without intimation.
   c.   For determining candidature, eligibility and selection criteria, the decision of the PSeGS shall
        be binding and mere application does not entitle a candidate the right to participate in the final
        selection process. Only the candidates found to be eligible shall be called to appear for further
        evaluation process and interview. Any candidate found to be lacking the basic qualifying
        criteria can be disqualified at any stage. No communication for rejection of candidature shall
        be issued.
   d.   The decision of the CEO, PSeGS in all respects shall be binding and final.
   e.   PSeGS reserves the right to defer, cancel or postpone the selection process at any time
        without assigning any reasons.




                                                                                               CEO, PSeGS
                                                                                           Annexure-A

Selection Criteria for the position:-


SN                                      Selection Stage                                        Maximum
                                                                                                Marks
1. Marks based on %age in qualifying degree
   Aggregate %age in required base qualification divided by 5 (rounded upto 1 decimal point)     20
   For example: A candidate has completed his B.Tech with 65.72% and
   M. Tech. with 69.38%. Then the marks awarded would be as under:
   Required base qualification: B.Tech. (%age: 65.72)
   Marks awarded = 65.72 / 5 = 13.1.
2. Marks based on additional relevant qualification(s):
   For each additional relevant qualification (degree/diploma/certificate of more than 6         10
   months), over and above the required base qualification, 5 marks would be awarded
   subject to maximum of 10 marks
3. Marks based on additional relevant experience:                                                10
   For each completed year of additional relevant experience (over and above the required
   relevant experience), 1 mark would be awarded subject to a maximum of 10 marks


4. Marks based on relevant experience in Government of Punjab:                                    5
   For each completed year of relevant experience in any organization of Government of
   Punjab, 1 mark would be awarded subject to a maximum of 5 marks
5. Marks based on relevant experience in Government:                                              5
   For each completed year of relevant experience in any organization of Centre / State
   Government, 1 mark would be awarded subject to a maximum of 5 marks


6. Scrutiny by Internal Committee                                                                20
7. Scrutiny by External Committee                                                                30
     Total                                                                                       100
