                                 State Bank of India
                               Central Recruitment & Promotion Department
                                        Corporate Centre, Mumbai
                                          Email: crpd@sbi.co.in




SBI RECOGNISED AS “WORLD’S BEST CONSUMER BANK-2026”
           BY GLOBAL FINANCE, NEW YORK.
                     RECRUITMENT OF SPECIALIST CADRE OFFICER ON REGULAR BASIS
                              (ADVERTISEMENT NO: CRPD/SCO/2026-27/15)
          ONLINE REGISTRATION OF APPLICATION & PAYMENT OF FEES: FROM 29.08.2026 TO 19.09.2026

State Bank of India invites online applications from eligible Indian citizens for recruitment to the Specialist Cadre Officers Post on Regular
Basis. Candidates are requested to apply online through the link given on Bank’s official website https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-
openings. The candidates, who intend to apply for the post are advised to apply only after carefully reading and understanding the
undernoted contents of this notification.

(I) BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE RECRUITMENT: POST: TRADE FINANCE OFFICER - IBG (TFO-IBG)-JMGS-I


   (A) Age (As on 31.07.2026): Minimum-21 years, Maximum-30 years


   (B) Essential Academic Qualification: (As on 31.07.2026):


Mandatory: Graduate (any discipline) from Government recognized University or Institution & Certification in Forex Operations from IIBF
(Certificate should be dated on or before 31.07.2026)


   •   Preferred: Certificate for Documentary Credit Specialists (CDCS) certification by LIBF / Certificate for Specialists in Demand
       Guarantees (CSDG) by LIBF/ Certified Trade Finance Professional (CTFP) by ICC Academy (Certificate should be dated on or
       before 31.07.2026).
                                        OR
   •   Global Trade Certificate (GTC) by ICC Academy/ Certificate in International Trade Finance (CITF) by LIBF/ Certificate in International
       Trade Finance (IIBF) (Certificate should be dated on or before 31.07.2026)

  (C) Experience (As on 31.07.2026): Minimum 1 year experience (Post Essential Academic Qualification experience) in Trade Finance
processing and operations mandatorily in Officer/Official role in any scheduled commercial Bank (preferably as a maker role).


(II) BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE RECRUITMENT: POST: TRADE FINANCE OFFICER – IBG (TFO-IBG)- MMGS-II


   (A) Age (As on 31.07.2026): Minimum-23 years, Maximum-32 years


   (B) Essential Academic Qualification: (As on 31.07.2026)


Mandatory: Graduate (any discipline) from Government recognized University or Institution & Certification in Forex Operations from IIBF
(Certificate should be dated on or before 31.07.2026)

   •   Preferred: Certificate for Documentary Credit Specialists (CDCS) certification by LIBF / Certificate for Specialists in Demand
       Guarantees (CSDG) by LIBF/ Certified Trade Finance Professional (CTFP) by ICC Academy (Certificate should be dated on or
       before 31.07.2026)
                                        OR
   •   Global Trade Certificate (GTC) by ICC Academy/ Certificate in International Trade Finance (CITF) by LIBF/ Certificate in International
       Trade Finance (IIBF) (Certificate should be dated on or before 31.07.2026)

   (C) Experience (As on 31.07.2026): Minimum 3 years’ experience (Post Essential Academic Qualification experience) in Trade Finance
processing mandatorily in Officer/Official role in any scheduled commercial Bank.


Note: Eligible candidate may apply for both the post(s)




                                                                                                                              Page 1 of 10
Detailed Advertisement and Instructions to apply are mentioned as below:

1    Before applying, candidates are requested to ensure that they fulfil the eligibility criteria for the post(s), as on the date of eligibility.
     Candidates are required to apply online through the website https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current openings. The process of
     Registration is completed only when fee is deposited with the Bank through online mode on or before the last date for payment of fee.

2    Candidates are required to apply for the post online through the link given on Bank’s official website only and no other mode of
     application will be entertained. Hard copy of application & other documents need not to be sent to this office. Candidates are advised
     in their own interest to apply online well before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid the possibility of disconnection
     / inability/ failure to log on to the website on account of heavy load on internet or website jam. SBI does not assume any responsibility
     for the candidates not being able to submit their applications within the last date on account of aforesaid reasons or for any other
     reason beyond the control of SBI.

3    Before submission of the application, candidates must check that they have filled in correct details in each respective field of the
     application form. After expiry of window for online application, no change/correction/modification will be allowed under any
     circumstances. Requests received in this regard in any form like Post, Email, by hand etc. shall not be entertained and will be
     summarily rejected.

4    Candidates must have valid Email ID and Mobile phone number which should be kept active till the declaration of result and issuance
     of call letters on final selection, if any. It will help him/her in getting call letter/Interview advice etc. by email or over mobile by SMS.

5    The Bank reserves the right to post / transfer the recruited officers to any of the offices of State Bank of India, in India or to depute to
     any of the associates / subsidiaries or any other organization depending upon the exigencies of the services. Request for posting /
     transfer to specific place / office may not be entertained.

6    Candidates are advised to check Bank's website https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings regularly for details and updates.
     No separate intimation will be issued in case of any change / update. All Changes/ Updates/ revisions / Corrigendum / results /
     schedules / list of shortlisted / selected candidates etc. will be hosted only on Bank’s website only. The Call letter/ advice,
     wherever required, will be sent by e-mail only (NO HARD COPY WILL BE SENT).

7    Candidates are required to upload all required documents (Biodata, Resume, ID proof, Age proof, Caste Certificate (if applicable),
     PwBD Certificate (if applicable), Educational qualification, other qualifications/ certifications, Proof of Experience, undertaking, etc.)
     failing which their application / candidature will not be considered for Shortlisting / Interview.

8    The Candidates applying for the post should ensure that their admission to all the stages of the recruitment (e.g. shortlisting, interview
     etc.) will be purely provisional subject to satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions. Short listing will be provisional without verification
     of documents. Candidature will be subject to verification of all details/ documents with the original when a candidate reports for interview
     (if called).

9    The provisionally selected candidates may be offered recruitment in the bank subject to their completing other formalities such as
     verification of eligibility, credentials, certificates, satisfactory reports from the references, medical examination and verification of
     antecedents etc.
10   Candidate(s) seeking age relaxation, fee exemption must submit valid requisite certificate of the Competent Authority in the prescribed
     format, when such certificate is sought at the time of document verification. Otherwise, their claim will not be entertained, and their
     candidature will be liable for cancellation / rejection.

11   Candidates against whom there is/ are adverse report regarding character & antecedents, moral turpitude are not eligible to apply for
     the post. If any such adverse orders / reports against the shortlisted/ selected candidates is found/ received by the Bank post their
     selection, their candidature/ services will be rejected/terminated forthwith.

12   In case more than one application (multiple applications) are submitted by a candidate for the same post, only the last valid (completed)
     application will be retained, and the application fee, if any, paid for the other registrations will stand forfeited. Further, multiple
     attendance/ appearance by a candidate at the time of interview / joining will result in rejection/ cancellation of candidature, summarily.
     However, if eligible, candidate may apply for both the post(s).

13   The Bank reserves the right to change the notified vacancies including the reserved vacancies without assigning any reason(s),
     whatsoever.




                                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 10
 14      The Bank reserves the right to cancel / modify the recruitment process entirely or partially at any stage / time, if so warranted, without
         assigning any reason thereof and the Bank shall not be liable to refund the fee or pay any compensation to the applicant.

 15      Candidates furnishing false information / suppressing the facts will be disqualified and shall be liable for debarment and legal/criminal
         action. Candidates who attempt fraud/impersonation shall be liable to be debarred from future recruitment process conducted by the
         Bank.
 16      The selected candidates, after recruitment, shall be on probation as per Bank’s extant recruitment Policy in force / amended/ modified
         from time to time, for the respective Post.

 17      All recruitment under this project shall be entirely at the discretion of the Bank.
 18      The Bank will decide the Venues(s) / Centre(s) for interview, if shortlisted. Candidates will have to appear for the interview, if
         called, at a Centre / venue as decided by the Bank and no request in this regard will be entertained by the Bank.

 19      In case a candidate is called for interview and is found not satisfying the eligibility criteria (Age, Educational Qualification, Other
         qualification, Experience etc.) he/ she will neither be allowed to appear for the interview nor be entitled for reimbursement of any
         travelling expenses.
 20      In case more than one candidate score same marks as cut-off marks in the final merit list (common marks at cut-off point), such
         candidates will be ranked in the merit according to their age in descending order.

 21      The Bank takes no responsibility for any delay in receipt or loss of any communication, whatsoever.

 22      Candidates serving in Govt./ Quasi Govt. offices, Public Sector undertakings including Nationalized Banks and Financial Institutions
         are advised to submit ‘No Objection Certificate’ from their employer at the time of interview, failing which their candidature will
         not be considered and travelling expenses, if any, otherwise admissible, will not be paid.
 23      In case of selection, candidates will be required to produce proper Discharge certificate/Relieving Certificate from the current employer
         at the time of taking up the recruitment.
 24      Any candidate who has any disciplinary proceedings pending or contemplated against him/her as on date will not be eligible
         to apply. An undertaking (available on Bank’s career page against Adv. No. CRPD/SCO/2026-27/15 from the applicant need
         to be uploaded at the time of online application.
 25      ALL REVISIONS/ CORRIGENDUM (IF ANY) WILL BE HOSTED ON THE BANK’S WEBSITE ONLY
 26      TEACHING & TRAINING EXPERIENCE WILL NOT BE COUNTED FOR ELIGIBILITY.
 27      HARD COPY OF APPLICATION & OTHER DOCUMENTS NOT TO BE SENT TO THIS OFFICE.

A. DETAILS OF POSTS/VACANCIES/SUGGESTED PLACE OF POSTING/SELECTION PROCESS:

      Post / Grade                                               Vacancies                                        PwBD*      Age as on 31/07/2026
                                                                                                               (Horizontal        (Years) #
                                                                                                                Vacancy)
                                       Type          SC     ST       OBC          EWS      UR        Total         VI        Min. age       Max. age

  Trade Finance Officer -IBG                         2       1            3        1        7         14           1             21             30
      (TFO-IBG) / JMGS I             Regular
  Trade Finance Officer -IBG                         3       1            5        2       10         21           1             23             32
     (TFO-IBG) / MMGS II

  Suggested place of posting **        Hyderabad & Kolkata                       Selection Procedure           Shortlisting and Interview


 Abbreviation:    SC-Scheduled      Caste,    ST-Scheduled       Tribe,       OBC-Other   Backward    Class,   EWS-Economically       Weaker    Section,
 UR – Unreserved, PwBD – Person with Benchmark Disabilities, VI-Visually Impaired, JMGS I-Junior Management Grade Scale I, MMGS II-
 Middle Management Grade Scale II.


 #     Relaxation in upper age for reserved categories is as per GOI guidelines.

 *     A person who wants to avail benefit of reservation under section 34 of “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016” [Persons with
       Benchmark Disability (PwBD)] will have to submit a latest disability certificate issued by a Competent Authority as per Government of
       India guidelines. Such certificate will be subject to verification/ re-verification as may be decided by the competent authority. The
       certificate should be dated on or before last date of registration of application & should be valid.

 **    Place of Posting is indicative only and the selected candidates may be Posted anywhere in India at the sole discretion of the Bank.
       However, request for transfer/allotment to any centre other than Hyderabad/ Kolkata shall not be entertained.


                                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 10
IMPORTANT POINTS:
  1.    The position of Trade Finance Officers (JMGS-I / MMGS II) shall remain in Specialist cadre and will have no provision for
        conversion into General cadre.
  2.    Reservation for PwBD candidates is horizontal and is included in the overall vacancy of the respective parent category.
  3.    The number of vacancies including reserved vacancies mentioned above are provisional and may vary according to the actual
        requirement of the Bank.

  4.    Posting / Placement / Utilization of the selected candidates will be done at the sole discretion of the Bank.
  5.    Maximum age indicated is for Unreserved category candidates. Relaxation in upper age limit will be available to reserved category
        candidates as per Govt. of India guidelines (wherever applicable).
  6.    No change in the category of any candidate is permitted after registration of online application, no correspondence/email/phone
        will be entertained in this regard.

  7.    Candidate belonging to OBC category but coming in the 'Creamy Layer' are not entitled to OBC reservation and age relaxation. They
        should indicate their category as 'UR' or UR (PwBD) as applicable.
  8.    A declaration will have to be submitted in the prescribed format by candidates seeking reservation under OBC category stating that
        he/she does not belong to the creamy layer as on last date of online registration of application. OBC certificate containing the 'non-
        creamy layer' clause, issued during the period 01.04.2026 to the date of interview, should be submitted by such candidates, if
        called for interview. No request for extension of time for production of requisite certificate beyond the said date shall be entertained
        and candidature will be cancelled.

  9.    Candidates belonging to reserved category including Person with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) for whom no reservation has been
        mentioned are free to apply for vacancies announced for Unreserved category provided they fulfil all the eligibility criteria applicable to
        Unreserved Category.
  10.   Benefit of reservation/ relaxation under reserved category including PwBD category can be availed of only upon production of valid
        Caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority on format prescribed by the Government of India.

  11. Relaxation in Upper age limit shall be as below (wherever applicable):
         Sl.  Category                                                                              Age relaxation (In years)
         a)   Other Backward Classes (OBC) (Non-Creamy Layer)                                                    3
         b)   Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes (SC/ ST)                                                        5
                                                               - PwBD (UR/ EWS)                                 10
         c)   Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD)       - PwBD (OBC)                                     13
                                                               - PwBD (SC/ ST)                                  15
        NOTE: Cumulative age relaxation will not be available either under the above items or in combination with any other items.
        Candidates seeking age relaxation are required to submit copies of necessary certificate(s) at the time of interview, if shortlisted.
  12. Only persons with benchmark disabilities would be eligible for reservation under PwBD category. “Benchmark disability” means a
        person with not less than 40% of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes
        the persons with disability, where disability has been defined in a measurable term, as certified by the certifying authority. A person
        who wants to avail the benefit of reservation will have to submit latest Disability Certificate, on prescribed format, issued by Medical
        Authority or any other notified Competent Authority (Certifying Authority). The certificate should be dated on or before last date of
        registration of application. In absence of valid certificate, the candidature will be liable for cancellation / rejection and no
        communication in this regard will be entertained by the Bank. Horizontal reservation has been provided to Persons with Benchmark
        Disabilities as per section 34 of “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act (RPWD), 2016”. Suitable categories of disabilities and
        Functional requirements for the post(s) will be in reference to the Gazette of India, Notification No. 38-16/2020-DD-III dated 4th January
        2021, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment [Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan)].

  13. Reservation for Economically Weaker section (EWS) in recruitment is governed by Office Memorandum No. 36039/1/2019-Estt (Res)
      dtd. 31.01.2019 of Department of Personnel & Training, Ministry of Personnel (DoPT), Public grievances & Pensions, Government Of
      India.
        Benefit of Reservation under EWS category can be availed of only upon production of “Income and Asset Certificate” issued by the
        competent authority on the format prescribed by Govt. of India for the relevant financial year as per the extant DoPT guidelines on
        or before the closure of online application date.
        The EWS candidates should note that in case, they are not in possession of “Income & Asset Certificate” for the FY2025-26 as per the
        extant DoPT guidelines on or before the closure of online application date, such candidates should apply under “UR Category” only


                                                                                                                              Page 4 of 10
B. DETAILS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS / POST-QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCES / SPECIFIC
  SKILLS ETC


  (I)      POST: TRADE FINANCE OFFICER - IBG (TFO-IBG)-JMGS-I
                                                                                POST ESSENTIAL ACADEMIC    SPECIFIC
                       ESSENTIAL ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
                                                                               QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCE      SKILLS
                               (AS ON 31.07.2026)
                                                                                     (AS ON 31.07.2026)    REQUIRED
 Mandatory: Graduate (any discipline) from Government recognized University or Mandatory: Minimum 1 year Outstanding
 Institution & Certification in Forex Operations from IIBF (Certificate should be experience                   (Post       Essential communication,
 dated on or before 31.07.2026)                                                             Academic                    Qualification presentation and
                                                                                            experience) in Trade Finance processing
 Preferred: Certificate for Documentary Credit Specialists (CDCS) certification by
                                                                                            processing         and       operations skills.
 LIBF / Certificate for Specialists in Demand Guarantees (CSDG) by LIBF/ Certified
                                                                                            mandatorily in Officer/Official role
 Trade Finance Professional (CTFP) by ICC Academy (Certificate should be dated
                                                                                            in   any scheduled commercial
 on or before 31.07.2026)        OR
                                                                                            Bank. (preferably as a maker)
 Global Trade Certificate (GTC) by ICC Academy/ Certificate in International Trade
 Finance (CITF) by LIBF/ Certificate in International Trade Finance (IIBF) (Certificate
 should be dated on or before 31.07.2026).


  (II)     POST: TRADE FINANCE OFFICER – IBG (TFO-IBG)- MMGS-II
                    ESSENTIAL ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION                             POST ESSENTIAL ACADEMIC      SPECIFIC
                             (AS ON 31.07.2026)                                 QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCE        SKILLS
                                                                                      (AS ON 31.07.2026)     REQUIRED
  Mandatory: Graduate (any discipline) from Government recognized University or Mandatory: Minimum 3 years’ Outstanding
  Institution & Certification in Forex Operations from IIBF (Certificate should be experience                  (Post       Essential communication,
  dated on or before 31.07.2026)                                                            Academic                    Qualification presentation
                                                                                            experience) in Trade Finance and processing
  Preferred: Certificate for Documentary Credit Specialists (CDCS) certification by
                                                                                            processing         mandatorily        in skills.
  LIBF / Certificate for Specialists in Demand Guarantees (CSDG) by LIBF/ Certified
                                                                                            Officer/Official     role      in   any
  Trade Finance Professional (CTFP) by ICC Academy (Certificate should be
                                                                                            scheduled commercial Bank.
  dated on or before 31.07.2026)             OR

  Global Trade Certificate (GTC) by ICC Academy/ Certificate in International Trade
  Finance (CITF) by LIBF/ Certificate in International Trade Finance (IIBF)
  (Certificate should be dated on or before 31.07.2026)


 IMPORTANT POINTS:

  i.     The educational qualification prescribed for the post is minimum. Candidate must possess the Post essential academic qualification
         and relevant full-time experience as on specified dates.

  ii.    The relevant experience certificate from the employer must contain specifically that the candidate had experience in that
         related field as required.

  iii. In cases where the certificate of degree/diploma does not specify the field of specialization, the candidate will have to produce a
         certificate from the concerned university/college specifically mentioning the specialization.


 DISCLAIMER (DPDP Act 2023)
 By applying to this position, you voluntarily provide your free, informed and unconditional consent for the collection and
 processing of your personal data by the Bank and sharing of such personal data with Data Processors as are required for the
 recruitment process, in accordance with Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 and the Rules made thereunder (collectively,
 the Act). The Bank has implemented all reasonable security safeguards to prevent breach of personal data in its possession or
 under its control, and your personal data will be handled with confidentiality and used solely for evaluating and verifying your
 eligibility, credentials, and candidacy for the advertised position and for certain legitimate uses as are permitted under the Act.




                                                                                                                                        Page 5 of 10
  C. JOB PROFILE & KEY RESPONSIBILITY AREAS:

                        Maker Role: (JMGS-I)
                        • Inputs trade transactions, scans and uploads relevant documents into banking systems.
                        • Handles TI+ data entry for trade finance transactions.
                        • Conducts document scrutiny before submission for approvals.
 Job Profile
                        • Inputs screening data and facilitates correct data entry into relevant screening systems.
 (Detail description
 of the role,
 responsibilities and   Checker role: (MMGS-II)
 functions)             • Conducts TI+ checking to validate transaction details.
                        • Performs document scrutiny to verify accuracy.
                        • Facilitates screening scrutiny against sanctions and AML policies.
                        • Validates compliance with regulatory requirements.
                        • Caters as an OFAC releaser maintaining adherence to regulatory compliance, including sanctions screening and
                          transaction approvals

                        Both Maker and Checker will be required to work in shifts as under:

                                                          Working Hours (IST)
                             Shift*
                                                   From                            To
                         Shift 1                  06:00 am                    03:00 pm
                         Shift 2A                 09:00 am                    06:00 pm
                         Shift 2B                 01:30 pm                    10:30 pm
                         Shift 3                  09:00 pm                    06:00 am
                        * The shift timings may undergo change as per Bank’s requirements.
                        Maker Role: (JMGS-I)
                          ➢ Accurate and efficient data entry of all allotted Trade Finance and or Forex transactions / processes.
                           ➢ Achieve productivity norms based on transaction product type.
                           ➢ Maintain average TAT within standard benchmarked limits based on the product. (more than 90%)
        Key                ➢ Volume of processed transactions per month.
 Responsibility            ➢ Completion of assigned internal certifications, system/process learning modules.

       Areas               ➢ Participation in workshops, new product/process trainings or role-based refreshers
                        Checker role: (MMGS-II)
                          ➢ Maintaining accuracy by checking the transaction data entered by Makers against relevant trade documents.
                           ➢ Maintain staff performance monitoring and productivity governance
                           ➢ Maintain average TAT within standard benchmarked limits based on the product. (more than 90%)
                           ➢ Identify and minimize delayed transactions.
                           ➢ Co-ordinate and maintain closure or resend of all rejected or incomplete transactions
                           ➢ Completion of Risk, AML and Compliance training as per policy.
                           ➢ Participation in RCSA, process review and training activities by providing relevant inputs for enhancements
                               thereto.

REMARKS: Job profile/KRAs mentioned above are illustrative. Roles/Job/KRAs, in addition to above, may be assigned by the bank
from time to time for the above posts.

  D. GRADE, PROBATION PERIOD & RENUMERATION:
       GRADE                               PAY SCALE                         PROBATION                         REMARKS
                                                                               PERIOD
      Junior            48480-2000/7-62480-2340/2 67160-2680/7-85920                         The official will be eligible for DA, HRA, CCA,
   Management
                                                                                             Provident Fund, Contributory Pension Fund
  Grade Scale – I
      Middle                   64820-2340/1-67160-2680/10-93960                06 Months     i.e. NPS, Leave Fare Concession (LFC),
   Management                                                                                Medical Facility, other perquisites etc. as per
  Grade Scale – II
                                                                                             rules in force from time to time.


                                                                                                                                 Page 6 of 10
E. SELECTION PROCESS: The selection will be on the basis of shortlisting and Interview.
 ❖       Shortlisting: Mere fulfilling the minimum qualification and experience will not vest any right to candidate for being called
         for interview. The shortlisting committee constituted by the Bank will decide the shortlisting parameters and thereafter, adequate
         number of candidates, as decided by the bank, will be shortlisted for interview. The decision of the Bank to call the candidates for
         the interview shall be final. No correspondence will be entertained in this regard.
 ❖       Interview: Interview will carry 100 marks. The qualifying marks in interview will be decided by the Bank. No correspondence will
         be entertained in this regard.
 ❖       Merit List: Merit list for selection will be prepared in descending order on the basis of scores obtained in interview only. In case
         more than one candidate score the cut-off marks (common marks at cut-off point), such candidates will be ranked according to
         their age in descending order, in the merit.
F. CALL LETTER FOR INTERVIEW: INTIMATION/CALL LETTER FOR INTERVIEW WILL BE SENT BY EMAIL OR WILL BE
UPLOADED ON BANK'S WEBSITE. NO HARD COPY WILL BE SENT.



G. HOW TO APPLY: Candidates should have valid email ID/Mobile phone number which should be kept active till the declaration of
result. It will help him/her in getting call letter/Interview advises etc. by email or over mobile by SMS.


 GUIDELINES FOR FILLING ONLINE APPLICATION:                                    GUIDELINES FOR PAYMENT OF FEES:

 i. Candidates will be required to register themselves online through the i. Application fees and Intimation Charges (Non-refundable) is Rs 750/-
 link available on SBI website https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current- (Rupees Seven Hundred Fifty only) for General/EWS/OBC candidates and
 openings and pay the application fee using Internet Banking/ Debit no fees/intimation charges for SC/ ST/ PwBD candidates.
 Card/ Credit Card etc.
                                                                               ii. After ensuring correctness of the particulars in the application form,
 ii. Candidates should first scan their latest photograph and signature. candidates are required to pay the fees through payment gateway
 Online application will not be registered unless candidate uploads his/ integrated with the application. No change/ edit in the application will be
 her photo and signature as specified on the online registration page allowed thereafter.
 (under ‘How to Upload Document”).
                                                                               iii. Fee payment will have to be made online through payment gateway
 iii. Candidates should fill the application carefully. Once application is available thereat. The payment can be made by using Debit Card/ Credit
 filled-in completely, candidate should submit the same. In the event of Card/ Internet Banking etc. by providing information as asked on the screen.
 candidate not being able to fill the application in one go, he can save Transaction charges for online payment, if any, will be borne by the
 the information already entered. When the information/application is candidates.
 saved, a provisional registration number and password is generated by
                                                                               iv. On successful completion of the transaction, e-receipt and application
 the system and displayed on the screen. Candidate should note down
                                                                               form, bearing the date of submission by the candidate, will be generated
 the registration number and password. They can re-open the saved
                                                                               which should be printed and retained by the candidate.
 application using registration number and password and edit the
                                                                               v. If the online payment of fee is not successfully completed in first instance,
 particulars, if needed. This facility of editing the saved information will
                                                                               please make fresh attempts to make online payment.
 be available for three times only. Once the application is filled
 completely, candidate should submit the same and proceed for online vi. A provision is there to reprint the e-Receipt and Application form
 payment of fee.                                                               containing fee details, at later stage.
 iv. After registering online, the candidates are advised to take a printout vii. Application Fee once paid will NOT be refunded on any account NOR
 of the system generated online application forms.                           can it be adjusted for any other examination or selection in future.


H. HOW TO UPLOAD DOCUMENTS:

 a. Details of Document to be uploaded:                                        iii. Size of the file should not be exceeding 500 kb.
 I. Recent Photograph & Signature (jpeg)                                       iv. In case of Document being scanned, please ensure it is saved as PDF
 II. Detailed Resume (PDF)                                                     and size not more than 500 kb as PDF. If the size of the file is more than
 III. ID Proof (PDF)                                                           500 kb, then adjust the setting of the scanner such as the DPI resolution,

 IV. Proof of Date of Birth (PDF)                                              no. of colors etc., during the process of scanning. Please ensure that
                                                                               Documents uploaded are clear and readable.
 V. Caste certificate & PwBD certificates (if applicable) (PDF)
                                                                               d. Document file type/ size:
 VI. Mandatory Educational Certificates: Degree Certificate (PDF)
                                                                               i. All Documents must be in PDF
 VII. Mandatory Certification in Forex Operations from IIBF.
                                                                               ii. Page size of the document to be A4 Document file type/ size (contd.)
 (PDF)


                                                                                                                                            Page 7 of 10
VIII. Experience certificates mandatory (PDF)                                 e. Guidelines for scanning of photograph/ signature/ documents:

IX. Preferred Certificate (if any). (PDF)                                     i. Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 200 dpi (dots per inch)
X. Biodata Form (Duly filled, Signed & Scanned in PDF- Available at the ii. Set Color to True Color
bank’s career website under the advertisement). (PDF)                         iii. Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the photograph/ signature,
XI. Form-16/Offer Letter from current employer (PDF)                          then use the upload editor to crop the image to the final size (as specified
XII. No Objection Certificate (NOC) from present employer                     above).
(mandatory if working in Government Organisation / Public Sector
                                                                              iv. The photo/ signature file should be JPG or JPEG format (i.e. file name
Unit/Public Sector Bank). (Please upload the document if available at
the time of registration, However it is mandatory to produce the same         should appear as: image01.jpg or image01.jpeg).
at the time of interview). (PDF)                                              v. Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder/ files or moving

XIII. Mandatory Undertaking (in pdf) (format available in Bank’s the mouse over the file image icon.
career page under the Advertisement no. CRPD/SCO/2026-27/15). vi. Candidates using MS Windows/ MSOffice can easily obtain photo and
(PDF)                                                                         signature in .jpeg format not exceeding 50 kb & 20 kb respectively by using
                                                                              MS Paint or MSOffice Picture Manager. Scanned photograph and signature
b. Photograph file type/ size:                                                in any format can be saved in .jpg format by using ‘Save As’ option in the

I. Photograph must be a recent passport style color picture.                  File menu. The file size can be reduced below 50 kb (photograph) & 20 kb

II. Size of file should be between 20 kb - 50 kb and Dimensions 200 x (signature) by using crop and then resize option (Please see point (i) & (ii)
230 pixels (preferred)                                                above for the pixel size) in the ‘Image’ menu. Similar options are available
                                                                              in another photo editor also.
III. Make sure that the picture is in color, taken against a light-colored,
preferably white, background.                                                 vii. While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will be provided
                                                                              with a link to upload his/her photograph and signature.
IV. Look straight at the camera with a relaxed face
V. If the picture is taken on a sunny day, have the sun behind you, or
                                                                              f. Procedure for Uploading Document:
place yourself in the shade, so that you are not squinting and there are
                                                                              I. There will be separate links for uploading each document.
no harsh shadows
                                                                              II. Click on the respective link "Upload"
VI. If you have to use flash, ensure there's no "red-eye"
                                                                              III. Browse & select the location where the JPG or JEPG, PDF, DOC or
VII. If you wear glasses make sure that there are no reflections, and
                                                                              DOCX file has been saved.
your eyes can be clearly seen.
                                                                              IV. Select the file by clicking on it and Click the 'Upload' button.
VIII. Caps, hats and dark glasses are not acceptable. Religious
headwear is allowed but it must not cover your face.                          V. Click Preview to confirm the document is uploaded and accessible
                                                                              properly before submitting the application. If the file size and format are not
IX. Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 50kb. If
                                                                              as prescribed, an error message will be displayed
the size of the file is more than 50 kb, then adjust the settings of the
scanner such as the DPI resolution, no. of color etc., during the process VI. Once uploaded/ submitted, the Documents uploaded cannot be edited/
of scanning.                                                              changed.
                                                                              VII. After uploading the photograph/ signature in the online application form

c. Signature file type/ size:                                                 candidates should check that the images are clear and have been uploaded
                                                                              correctly. In case the photograph or signature is not prominently visible, the
i. The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen.
                                                                              candidate may edit his/ her application and re-upload his/ her photograph or
ii. The signature must be signed only by the applicant and not by any
                                                                              signature, prior to submitting the form. If the face in the photograph or
other person.
                                                                              signature is unclear the candidate’s application may be rejected.
iii. The signature will be used to put on the Call Letter and wherever
necessary.
iv. Size of file should be between 10 kb - 20 kb and Dimensions 140 x
60 pixels (preferred).
v. Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 20 kb.
vi. Signature in CAPITAL LETTERS shall NOT be accepted.




                                                                                                                                            Page 8 of 10
I. GENERAL INFORMATION:
 I. Before applying for a post, the applicant should ensure that he/ she XI. DECISIONS OF BANK IN ALL MATTERS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY,
 fulfils eligibility and other norms mentioned above for that post as on CONDUCT OF INTERVIEW, OTHER TESTS AND SELECTION WOULD
 the specified date and that the particulars furnished by him/ her are BE FINAL AND BINDING ON ALL CANDIDATES. NO REPRESENTATION
 correct in all respects.                                                    OR CORRESPONDENCE WILL BE ENTERTAINED BY THE BANK IN
 II. Candidates belonging to reserved category including, for whom no THIS REGARD.
 reservation has been mentioned, are free to apply for vacancies XII. The applicant shall be liable for civil/ criminal consequences in case the
 announced for General category provided they must fulfil all the information submitted in his/ her application are found to be false at a later
 eligibility conditions applicable to General category.                      stage.
 III. IN CASE IT IS DETECTED AT ANY STAGE OF RECRUITMENT XIII. Merely satisfying the eligibility norms does not entitle a candidate to be
 THAT AN APPLICANT DOES NOT FULFIL THE ELIGIBILITY NORMS called for interview. Bank reserves the right to call only the requisite number
 AND/ OR THAT HE/SHE HAS FURNISHED ANY INCORRECT/ of candidates for the interview after preliminary screening/ short-listing with
 FALSE INFORMATION OR HAS SUPPRESSED ANY MATERIAL reference to candidate’s qualification, suitability, experience etc.
 FACT(S), HIS/ HER CANDIDATURE WILL STAND CANCELLED. IF XIV. In case of multiple application, only the last valid (completed)
 ANY OF THESE SHORTCOMINGS IS/ ARE DETECTED EVEN                             application will be retained and the application fee/ intimation charge paid
 AFTER APPOINTMENT, HIS/ HER SERVICES ARE LIABLE TO BE for other registration will stand forfeited. Multiple appearance by a candidate
 TERMINATED.                                                                 for a single post in interview will be summarily rejected/ candidature
 IV. The applicant should ensure that the application is strictly in cancelled.
 accordance with the prescribed format and is properly and completely XV. Any legal proceedings in respect of any matter of claim or dispute arising
 filled.                                                                     out of this advertisement and/ or an application in response thereto can be
 V. Appointment of selected candidate is subject to his/ her being instituted only in Mumbai and Courts/ Tribunals/ Forums at Mumbai only
 declared medically fit as per the requirement of the Bank. Such shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction to try any cause/ dispute.
 appointment will also be subject to the service and conduct rules of the XVI. Outstation candidates, who may be called for interview after short-
 Bank for such post in the Bank, in force at the time of joining the Bank.   listing will be reimbursed the cost of airfare (economy class) for the shortest
 VI. Candidates are advised to keep their e-mail ID/mobile no. active for route in India on the basis of actual journey from the place of present
 receiving communication viz. call letters/ Interview date advice etc.       posting/residence whichever is nearer to the interview venue, maximum Rs
 VII. The Bank takes no responsibility for any delay in receipt or loss of 10,000(Rupee Ten Thousand only) (to-and-fro) OR the actual travel cost in
 any communication.                                                          India (whichever is lower) on submission of original/copies of flight

 VIII. Candidates serving in Govt./ Quasi Govt. offices, Public Sector tickets/invoice and boarding pass. Local transportation (like taxi/cab,
 undertakings including Nationalized Banks and Financial Institutions personal car etc.) will not be reimbursed. A candidate, if found ineligible for
 are advised to submit ‘No Objection Certificate’ from their employer at the post will not be permitted to appear for the interview and will not be
 the time of interview, failing which their                              reimbursed any fare.
                                                                             XVII. BANK RESERVES RIGHT TO CANCEL THE RECRUITMENT
 candidature may not be considered and travelling expenses, if any,
                                                                             PROCESS ENTIRELY OR FOR ANY PARTICULAR POST AT ANY
 otherwise admissible, will not be paid.                                     STAGE WITHOUT ASSIGNING ANY REASONS THEREOF,
                                                                             WHATSOEVER.
 IX. In case of selection, candidates will be required to produce proper
 discharge certificate from the employer at the time of taking up the XVIII. At the time of interview, the candidate will be required to provide
 appointment.                                                                details regarding criminal case(s) pending against him/her, if any. The
 X. Candidates are advised in their own interest to apply online well Bank may also conduct independent verification, inter alia, including
 before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid the verification of Police Records etc. The Bank reserves the right to deny
 possibility of disconnection / inability/ failure to log on to the website on the appointment depending upon such disclosure and/or an
 account of heavy load on internet or website jam. SBI does not assume independent verification.
 any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their
 applications within the last date on account of aforesaid reasons or for
 any other reason beyond the control of SBI.

FOR ANY QUERY, PLEASE WRITE TO US THROUGH LINK “CONTACT US” WHICH IS AVAILABLE ON BANK’S WEBSITE (URL –
https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/post-your-query

                                             The Bank is not responsible for printing errors, if any
State bank of India does not endorse, authorize or associate with any external platform, consultancy, individual or digital channel claiming
to provide guaranteed selection, influence in recruitment or insider guidance. Candidates must rely solely in information available on SBI’s
official career portal.



  MUMBAI
  29.08.2026                                                                                            GENERAL MANAGER (RP & PM)
                                                                                                                                          Page 9 of 10
                HOW TO APPLY
 Login to https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings

        Scroll down and click on advertisement no.
                  CRPD/SCO/2026-27/15


                 Download advertisement
         (Carefully read the detailed advertisement)


                       Apply Online
(Before final submission, please go through your application.
   Corrections will not be allowed after final submission)




                                                         Page 10 of 10
