                                             State Bank of India
                                 Central Recruitment & Promotion Department
                                          Corporate Centre, Mumbai
                                            Email: crpd@sbi.co.in




SBI RECOGNISED AS “WORLD’S BEST CONSUMER BANK-2026”
            BY GLOBAL FINANCE, NEW YORK.




                                                                              Page 1 of 12
                ENGAGEMENT OF SPECIALIST CADRE OFFICERS ON CONTRACT BASIS
                            (ADVERTISEMENT NO: CRPD/SCO/2026-27/22)
    ONLINE REGISTRATION OF APPLICATION & PAYMENT OF FEES: FROM 16.09.2026 TO 06.10.2026

State Bank of India invites online applications from eligible Indian citizens for engagement to the Specialist Cadre Officers Posts on
Contract Basis. Candidates are requested to apply online through the link given on Bank’s official website
https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings
BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE ENGAGEMENT

POST:1. DEPUTY VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)

   A) AGE: Minimum -36 years, Maximum-45 years (As on 31.08.2026)

   B) Education Qualifications(As on 31.08.2026) : Basic Qualifications: BE / BTech (Computer Science / Electronics & Communications /
      Information Technology/ Cybersecurity) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%) OR MCA/ MSc (Computer
      Science)/ MSc (IT) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%) OR MTech in Computer Science/ Cyber Security
      / Information Security from recognized university.( Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)
   C) Preferred certifications: Any one out of CISSP, CRISC, CISM and CISA.
     (The certificate should be valid and dated on or before last date of registration of application.)

   D) Post-Qualification Experience (As on 31.08.2026): Minimum years of Experience: 12 years in IT Domain out of which minimum 6
      years’ experience in IT risk management or information security is preferable.

POST: 2.ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)

   A) AGE: Minimum -32 years, Maximum-42 years (As on 31.08.2026)

   B) Education Qualifications (As on 31.08.2026): Basic Qualifications: BE / BTech (Computer Science / Electronics & Communications /
      Information Technology/ Cybersecurity) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%) OR MCA/ MSc (Computer
      Science)/ MSc (IT) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%) OR MTech in Computer Science/ Cyber Security
      / Information Security from recognized university.( Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)

   C) Preferred certifications: Any one out of CISSP, CRISC, CISM and CISA.
      (The certificate should be valid and dated on or before last date of registration of application.)

   D) Post-Qualification Experience (As on 31.08.2026): Minimum years of Experience: 09 years in IT Domain out of which minimum 5
      years’ experience in IT risk management or information security is preferable

IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS:
  1. The process of Registration is complete only when fee is deposited with the Bank through online mode on or before the last date for
      payment of fee / last date of online registrations.
  2. Before applying, candidates are requested to ensure that they fulfil the eligibility criteria for the Post(s) as on the date of eligibility.
  3. Candidates are required to upload all relevant documents including their resume, ID proof, age proof, Caste certificate, PwBD
      Certificate (if applicable), educational qualifications certifications, experience details, Biodata, Preferred certifications, CTC
      Form, etc., failing which their application/candidature will not be considered for shortlisting/ interview.
  4. The process of Short-listing will be provisional and without verification of original documents. Candidature will be subject to verification
      of all details/ documents with the original when a candidate reports for interview (if called).
  5. In case a candidate is called for interview and is found not satisfying the eligibility criteria (Age, Educational Qualification and Experience
      etc.) he/ she will neither be allowed to appear for the interview nor be entitled for reimbursement of any travelling expenses.

  6. Candidates are advised to check Bank’s official website https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings regularly for details and
      updates (including the list of shortlisted/ selected candidates). The Call (letter/ advice), where required, will be sent by e-mail only.
      (NO HARD COPY WILL BE SENT).
  7. ALL REVISIONS/ CORRIGENDUM (IF ANY) WILL BE HOSTED ON THE BANK’S WEBSITE ONLY.
  8. In case more than one candidate scores same marks as cut-off marks in the final merit list (common marks at cut-off point), such
      candidates will be ranked in the merit according to their age in descending order.
  9. Hard copy of application & other documents need not to be sent to this office.
10. TRAINING / TEACHING EXPERIENCE WILL NOT BE COUNTED FOR ELIGIBILITY.


                                                                                                                                           Page 2 of 12
   11. CANDIDATE CAN NOT APPLY FOR BOTH THE POSTS.
   12. In case a candidate applies for more than One post, only the last valid (completed) application of two different posts will be
            retained, and the application fee, if any, paid for the other registrations will stand forfeited.
   13. Mere fulfilment of the eligibility criteria (i.e. minimum required qualifications and experiences) shall not entitle a candidate to be called
            for interview. The shortlisting committee constituted by the Bank will decide the shortlisting parameters and thereafter, adequate number
            of candidates, as decided by the Bank, will be shortlisted and called for interview. The decision of the Bank to call the candidates for
            the interview shall be final. No correspondence will be entertained in this regard.
   14. Candidates against whom there is / are adverse reports regarding character & antecedents, moral turpitude etc. are not eligible to apply
            for the post. If any such adverse orders / reports against the shortlisted/ selected candidates is found/ received by the Bank post their
            selection, their candidature will be rejected forthwith.
   15. At the time of interview, the candidate will be required to provide details regarding criminal case(s) pending against him/ her, if any. The
            Bank may also conduct independent verification, inter alia, including verification of police records etc. The Bank reserves the right to
            deny engagement depending upon such disclosures and/ or independent verification.
   16. Candidates furnishing false information / suppressing the facts will be disqualified and shall be liable for debarment and legal/criminal
            action. Candidates who attempt fraud/impersonation shall be liable to be debarred from future engagement process conducted by the
            Bank
   17. Candidates serving in Govt./ Quasi Govt. offices, Public Sector undertakings including Nationalized Banks and Financial
            Institutions and SBI Group companies are advised to submit ‘No Objection Certificate’ from their employer at the time of
            interview, failing which their candidature may not be considered and travelling expenses, if any, otherwise admissible, will not
            be paid.


      A: DETAILS OF POST/VACANCY/ AGE/ REMUNERATION/PLACE OF POSTING/NATURE OF ENGAGEMENT/SELECTION
      PROCESS:
NAME OF THE POST : DEPUTY VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)

          CATEGORY WISE VACANCIES                                                Age in                  Annual CTC                    Contract                Suggested                       Selection Procedure
                                                                                 years                    Range**                      Period $                  place of
                                                                                as on ##                                                                        posting #
                                                                               31.08.2026
                            UR          TOTAL               PwBD
                                                            (LD)@               Minimum-                Upto Rs 60.00                    3 years                Mumbai,                            Shortlisting &
     Regular                 2               2                 -                 36 years                    lacs                                             Navi Mumbai                   Interview followed by CTC
                                                                                Maximum-                                                                                                            Negotiation
     Backlog                 -               -                  1
                                                                                 45 years
      Total                  2               2                  1

NAME OF THE POST : ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)

          CATEGORY WISE VACANCIES                                                Age in                  Annual CTC                    Contract                 Suggested                       Selection Procedure
                                                                                 years                    Range**                      Period $                   place of
                                                                                as on ##                                                                         posting #
                                                                               31.08.2026
                              UR           TOTAL              PwBD
                                                             (LD) @             Minimum-                Upto Rs 50.00                    3 years                Mumbai,                            Shortlisting &
     Regular                     2               2              -               32 years                     lacs                                              Navi Mumbai                  Interview followed by CTC
     Backlog                     -               -              1               Maximum-                                                                                                            Negotiation
                                                                                42 years
      Total                      2               2              1

Abbreviation: UR- Unreserved, PwBD-Person with Benchmark Disabilities, LD-Locomotor Disability
@ - Horizontal vacancy Reservation is horizontal and is included in the vacancy of the respective parent category.
A person who wants to avail benefit of reservation under section 34 of “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016” [Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD)] will have to submit a latest disability certificate issued by a
Competent Authority as per Government of India guidelines. Such certificate will be subject to verification/ re-verification as may be decided by the competent authority. The certificate should be dated on or before last date of
registration of application.
## Age relaxation is available to PwBD as per Govt. of India guidelines.
** Annual CTC will be bifurcated into Fixed Pay & Variable pay in 80:20 ratio. Annual CTC is negotiable and will depend upon experience & current emoluments of candidates in the present employment & place of posting.
# Suggested place of posting is indicative, Bank reserves the right to post or transfer the services to any of the offices of State Bank of India in India or to depute to any of its associates/subsidiaries or any other organization depending
upon the exigencies of service.
$ The contract period is of 3 years. The contract can be further extended upto 2 years subject to yearly review.The contract can be terminated at any time, without prejudice, by giving Three months’ notice from either side or
on payment/surrender of Three months' compensation amount in lieu thereof.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Page 3 of 12
  IMPORTANT INFORMATIONS

a. The number of vacancies, including reserved vacancies mentioned above, are provisional and may vary according to the actual
   requirement of the Bank.
b. The educational qualification prescribed for various posts is the minimum. Candidate must possess the qualification and relevant
   full-time experience as on specified dates.
c. Valid Caste certificate issued by Competent Authority on format prescribed by the Government of India will have to be submitted
   by the ST/SC/ PwBD candidates for fee exemption eligibility.
d. PwBD candidate should produce a certificate issued by a competent authority as per the Government of India Guidelines.
e. Maximum age indicated is for General (UR) category candidates. Relaxation in upper age limit will be available to PwBD category
   candidates as per Govt. of India guidelines (wherever applicable).
f. Candidates belonging to reserved category including Person with Benchmark Disabilities (PwBD) for whom no reservation has
   been mentioned are free to apply for vacancies announced for UR category provided they fulfil all the eligibility criteria applicable
   to UR category.
g. The relevant experience certificate from the employer must contain specifically that the candidate has experience in that
   related field as required. Without the production of proper experience certificate, Bank has right to cancel the candidature
   at any point of time.
h. Bank reserves the right to cancel the engagement process entirely or for any particular post at any stage without specifying any
   reasons thereof.
i. Reservation for PwBD candidates is horizontal and is included in the vacancy of the respective parent category.
j. Only those persons with benchmark disabilities would be eligible for reservation under PwBD category. “Benchmark disability”
   means a person with not less than 40% of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms
   and includes the persons with disability, where disability has been defined in a measurable term, as certified by the certifying
   authority. Backlog vacancies reserved for PwBD would be filled by a person with benchmark disability in the respective category.
   If no suitable person from that category is available, such backlog would be filled up by interchange among other eligible PwBD
   candidates subject to the posts having been identified suitable for such disabilities.
k. RESERVATION FOR PERSONS WITH BENCHMARK DISABILITIES (PwBD): Horizontal reservation has been provided to
   Persons with Benchmark Disabilities as per section 34 of “The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act (RPWD), 2016”. The post is
   identified suitable for the Persons with undernoted categories of disabilities as defined in the Schedule of RPWD Act 2016.
   Note: Only “Person with benchmark disability” would be eligible for reservation with not less than 40% of a specified disability where
   specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes a person with disability where specified disability has
   been defined in measurable terms, as certified by the certifying authority.
  A person who wants to avail the benefit of PwBD reservation will have to submit latest Disability Certificate, on prescribed
  format, issued by Medical Authority or any other notified Competent Authority (Certifying Authority). The certificate should
  be dated on or before last date of registration of application.
l. The candidates who are working in State Bank Group/ Companies will have to produce “No objection certificate (NOC)” from their
   employer while applying for any post(s).
m. TRANSFER POLICY: The Bank reserves the right to transfer the services of such officers engaged on contract (OECs) to any of
   the offices of State Bank of India in India or to depute to any of its associates/subsidiaries or any other organization depending
   upon the exigencies of service. Any request for posting/transfer to a specific place/office may not be entertained.
n. MERIT LIST: Merit list for selection will be prepared in descending order on the basis of scores obtained in interview only. in case
   more than one candidate score the cut-off marks (common marks at cut-off point), such candidates will be ranked according to their
   age in descending order, in the merit.
$$ How to ascertain experience (Both mandatory & preferred) / Verification of Work Experience:

 The period of work experience will be reckoned based on the details furnished in the Biodata/Resume at the time of shortlisting and
 interview. Verification of the documents evidencing experience shall be carried out at the time of Interview / joining through one or
 more ways of the following means:
 i) Experience certificate issued by the employer; and/ or
 ii) Annual performance appraisal letters; and / or
 iii) Combination of engagement and relieving letters; and/ or
 iv) Combination of offer letter and IT returns; or
 v) Any other authentic documentary evidence substantiating the period of experience, subject to satisfactory background and
 reference checks.
                                                                                                                                  Page 4 of 12
 B. DETAILS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS/POST-QUALIFICATION EXPERIENCES/SPECIFIC
 SKILLS /JOB PROFILE/KEY RESPONSIBILITY AREA ETC:

 1.DEPUTY VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)
Educational            Mandatory
Qualification
                       Basic Qualifications: BE / BTech (Computer Science / Electronics & Communications / Information Technology/
(As on 31.08.2026)
                       Cybersecurity) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)

                       OR MCA/ MSc (Computer Science)/ MSc (IT) from recognized university. (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)

                       OR MTech in Computer Science/ Cyber Security / Information Security from recognized university. ( Minimum
                       percentage of Marks: 50%)

                       Preferred certifications: Any one out of CISSP, CRISC, CISM and CISA.
                       (The certificate should be valid and dated on or before last date of registration of application.)
Post-Qualification     Minimum years of Experience: 12 years in IT Domain out of which minimum 6 years’ experience in IT risk
Experience
                       management or information security is preferable.
(As on 31.08.2026)
                       Preferred experience details:
                        1. Deep knowledge of risk management frameworks and standards such as NIST, ISO 27001, COBIT and ITIL.

                        2. Significant experience in senior leadership roles with a proven track record of managing large-scale IT risk

                            management programs.
                        3. Stay updated with the latest trends, technologies and best practices in IT risk management.

                        4. Demonstrated ability to develop and implement comprehensive IT risk management strategies aligned with the

                            organization’s overall business objectives.
                        5. Experience in collaborating with various departments, leading risk management projects, and ensuring compliance

                            with regulatory requirements.
                        6. Strong understanding of advanced cybersecurity principles, technologies and trends.

                        7. Ability to develop and oversee effective incident response and business continuity plans.

                       Experience Certificate/ Any other Document evidencing the relevant / essential experience needs to be submitted by
                       the applicant. Documents (s) submitted by the candidate will be considered on merit at the sole discretion of the
                       Bank and Bank’s decision shall be final. (Training & Teaching experience will not be counted for eligibility).
Job Profile             ➢ Lead and mentor a team of IT risk professionals
(Detail description
                       ➢ Attend IT Risk Agenda and IT Risk related observation from the Top Management arising in the Risk related
of             Role,
Responsibilities and       Committees
Functions)
                       ➢   Analyze risk data and develop strategies to mitigate identified risks
                       ➢ Monitoring overall performance of team members

                       ➢ Prepare and present risk management reports to senior managements and stakeholders

                       ➢ Providing technical leadership, guidance, and direction on IT Risk management

                       ➢ Provide ability for overseeing and managing the organization’s IT risk management strategies, policies and

                           procedures
                       ➢ Work closely with other departments to ensure comprehensive risk management

                       ➢ Promote risk awareness and understanding

                       ➢ Development of Risk Assessment Framework aligned with regulatory guidelines/standards.

                       ➢ Conducting Risk Analysis/ Security Reviews of various processes with reference to Technology Risk.

                       REMARKS: Job profile/KRAs mentioned above are illustrative. Roles/Job/KRAs, in addition to above, may
                       be assigned by the bank from time to time for the above posts.
KRAs for the post      ➢ Leading the system officers of IT-Risk Team, putting in place systems for measuring, mitigating, monitoring and

                           controlling of IT risk by application owners in line with regulatory guidelines.
                       ➢ Creating IT – Risk Awareness among the stakeholders.

                       ➢ Disseminate IT-Risks’ related guidelines / instructions / observations from Top Management / Committees / Audits

                           / Regulator and report the progress of implementation.
                       ➢ Preparing consolidated Risk Assessment report at periodical intervals and put up the same to Senior Management.

                       ➢ Periodical monitoring and annual review of Key Indicators of GITC Departments.

                       ➢ Development of Risk Assessment Framework aligned with regulatory guidelines/standards.

                                                                                                                                Page 5 of 12
                       ➢ Conducting Risk Analysis/ Security Reviews of various processes with reference to Technology Risk.

                       ➢ Development of Risk Appetite Framework for Technology related domains.

                       REMARKS: Job profile/KRAs mentioned above are illustrative. Roles/Job/KRAs, in addition to above, may
                       be assigned by the bank from time to time for the above posts.
 2. ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT (IT RISK)
Educational            Basic Qualifications: BE / BTech (Computer Science / Electronics & Communications / Information Technology/
Qualification
                       Cybersecurity) from recognized university (Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)
(As on 31.08.2026)
                       OR MCA/ MSc (Computer Science)/ MSc (IT) from recognized university. ( Minimum percentage of Marks: 50%)

                       OR MTech in Computer Science/ Cyber Security / Information Security from recognized university. ( Minimum
                       percentage of Marks: 50%)

                       Preferred certifications: Any one out of CISSP, CRISC, CISM and CISA.
                       (The certificate should be valid and dated on or before last date of registration of application.)
Post-Qualification     Minimum years of Experience: 09 years in IT Domain out of which minimum 5 years’ experience in IT risk
Experience
                       management or information security is preferable.
(As on 31.08.2026)
                       Preferred experience detail:
                       1. Deep knowledge of risk management frameworks and standards such as NIST, ISO 27001, COBIT and ITIL.

                       2. Significant experience in senior leadership roles with a proven track record of managing large-scale IT risk

                           management programs.
                       3. Stay updated with the latest trends, technologies and best practices in IT risk management.

                       4. Demonstrated ability to develop and implement comprehensive IT risk management strategies aligned with the

                           organization’s overall business objectives.
                       5. Experience in collaborating with various departments, leading risk management projects, and ensuring compliance

                           with regulatory requirements.
                       6. Strong understanding of advanced cybersecurity principles, technologies and trends.

                       7. Ability to develop and oversee effective incident response and business continuity plans.

                       Experience Certificate/ Any other Document evidencing the relevant / essential experience needs to be submitted by
                       the applicant. Documents (s) submitted by the candidate will be considered on merit at the sole discretion of the Bank
                       and Bank’s decision shall be final.(Teaching / Training experience will not be counted for eligibility).
Job Profile            ➢ Lead and mentor a team of IT risk professionals.
(Detail description
of             Role,   ➢ Attend IT Risk Agenda and IT Risk related observation from the Top Management arising in the Risk related
Responsibilities and        Committees.
Functions)
                       ➢    Analyze risk data and develop strategies to mitigate identified risks.
                       ➢ Monitoring overall performance of team members.

                       ➢ Prepare and present risk management reports to senior managements and stakeholders.

                       ➢ Providing technical leadership, guidance, and direction on IT Risk management.

                       ➢ Provide ability for overseeing and managing the organization’s IT risk management strategies, policies and

                            procedures.
                       ➢ Work closely with other departments to ensure comprehensive risk management.

                       ➢ Promote risk awareness and understanding.

                       ➢ Development of Risk Assessment Framework aligned with regulatory guidelines/standards.

                       ➢ Conducting Risk Analysis/ Security Reviews of various processes with reference to Technology Risk.


                       REMARKS: Job profile/KRAs mentioned above are illustrative. Roles/Job/KRAs, in addition to above, may be
                       assigned by the bank from time to time for the above posts.




                                                                                                                                    Page 6 of 12
 KRAs for the post         ➢ Leading the system officers of IT-Risk Team, putting in place systems for measuring, mitigating, monitoring and

                              controlling of IT risk by application owners in line with regulatory guidelines.
                           ➢ Creating IT – Risk Awareness among the stakeholders.

                           ➢ Disseminate IT-Risks’ related guidelines / instructions / observations from Top Management / Committees / Audits

                              / Regulator and report the progress of implementation.
                           ➢ Preparing consolidated Risk Assessment report at periodical intervals and put up the same to Senior Management.

                           ➢ Periodical monitoring and annual review of Key Indicators of GITC Departments.

                           ➢ Development of Risk Assessment Framework aligned with regulatory guidelines/standards.

                           ➢ Conducting Risk Analysis/ Security Reviews of various processes with reference to Technology Risk.

                           ➢ Development of Risk Appetite Framework for Technology related domains.


                           REMARKS: Job profile/KRAs mentioned above are illustrative. Roles/Job/KRAs, in addition to above, may be
                           assigned by the bank from time to time for the above posts.


E) SELECTION PROCESS: The selection will be based on Shortlisting and Interview. Thereafter, CTC negotiations will be held.
     ➢ Shortlisting: Mere fulfilling minimum qualification and experience will not vest any right in candidate for being called for
        interview. The shortlisting committee constituted by the Bank will decide the shortlisting parameters and thereafter, adequate number of
        candidates, as decided by the Bank, will be shortlisted for interview. The decision of the Bank to call the candidates for the interview shall
        be final. No correspondence will be entertained in this regard. The shortlisted candidates will be called for interview.
     ➢ Interview: Interview will carry 100 marks. The qualifying marks in interview will be decided by the Bank. No correspondence will be
        entertained in this regard.
     ➢ CTC Negotiation: CTC negotiations will be done with the candidates in the order of Merit one by one (i.e., In case the selected candidate
        does not agree with the negotiated price, the name of the candidate shall be considered as Voluntary Exit from the engagement exercise
        and next candidate in the merit list shall be called for negotiation). CTC Negotiation will be done at the time of Interview or after completion

        of interview process, separately.

     ➢ Merit list: Merit list for selection will be prepared in descending order on the basis of scores obtained in interview only. In case more than
        one candidate scores the cut-off marks (common marks at cut-off point), such candidates will be ranked according to their age in
        descending order, in the merit list.

     ➢ Final Selection: Top-most candidates in the Merit List, with whom CTC is negotiated successfully, will be finally selected.

F. LEAVE: The proposed Officers engaged on Contract (OECs) shall be entitled to leave of 30 days during the financial year which will be granted
by Bank for genuine and appropriate reasons.

G. Notice Period: The contract can be terminated without assigning any reason by giving 3 months’ notice from either side or by
payment/surrender of 3 month’s compensation amount in lieu thereof.

H. CALL LETTER FOR INTERVIEW: Intimation/Call letter for interview will be sent by email or will be uploaded on Bank's website. No hard
copy will be sent.
I. GRADE & RENUMERATION / CTC RANGE:
 Sr Name of the Post                                     Nature        of CTC range (Including Fixed & Variable)
                                                         Engagement
 1     Deputy Vice President (IT Risk)                                     Upto Rs 60.00 LACS (CTC will be bifurcated into Fixed Pay and
                                                                           Variable Pay in 80:20 ratio)
 2     Assistant Vice President (IT Risk)                Contractual       Upto Rs 50.00 LACS (CTC will be bifurcated into Fixed Pay and
                                                                           Variable Pay in 80:20 ratio)

REMUNERATION: Annual CTC, which is negotiable, will depend upon Experience & Current Emoluments of candidates in the present employment
and place of posting. The CTC comprises 80% fixed and 20% variable pay. Annual increment in CTC is subject to satisfactory annual
performance. Any other Perks -NO
Variable Pay: The contractual officer shall become eligible for payment of variable pay subject to securing minimum qualifying 90% marks in the
performance appraisal of the relevant period at half yearly intervals as on 31 st March and 30th September subject to deduction of Income tax as
per the extant Income tax rules. In case the contract ends before the completion of 6 months (from 2nd year onwards), the variable pay will be
released on pro-rata basis.

                                                                                                                                           Page 7 of 12
The variable pay structure, depending on the performance of the contractual officer will be as under:
 Score in the performance Appraisal             Percentage of Variable Compensation based on achievement of scores
 99 to 100%                                     100%
 97 to 98.99 %                                  90%
 94 to 96.99%                                   80%
 90 to 93.99%                                   70%
 Below 90%                                      NIL


ANNUAL INCREMENT: The Annual increment proposed from second year onwards can be upto 7 % of annual CTC finalized at the time of
Negotiation, subject to the achievement of performance appraisal score of at least 90% (Minimum score to be eligible for annual increment) with
distribution of Annual increment aligned to the Fixed and variable components. (Fixed: variable: 80:20)

DISCLAIMER (DPDP Act 2023)
By applying to this position, you voluntarily provide your free, informed and unconditional consent for the collection and processing
of your personal data by the Bank and sharing of such personal data with Data Processors as are required for the engagement process,
in accordance with Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 and the Rules made thereunder (collectively, the Act). The Bank has
implemented all reasonable security safeguards to prevent breach of personal data in its possession or under its control, and your
personal data will be handled with confidentiality and used solely for evaluating and verifying your eligibility, credentials, and
candidacy for the advertised position and for certain legitimate uses as are permitted under the Act.


I. HOW TO APPLY: Candidates should have valid email ID which should be kept active till the declaration of result. It will help him/her in
getting call letter/Interview advice etc. by email.
         GUIDELINES FOR FILLING ONLINE APPLICATION                          GUIDELINES FOR PAYMENT OF FEES
   i. Candidates will be required to register themselves online i.  Application fees and Intimation Charges (Non-refundable) is
         through        the   link      available   on     SBI        website           750/- ( Seven Hundred Fifty only) for UR/EWS/OBC candidates
         https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings and pay                       and no fees/intimation charges for SC/ ST/ PwBD candidates.
         the application fee using Internet Banking/ Debit Card/ Credit          ii.    After ensuring correctness of the particulars in the application
         Card etc.                                                                      form, candidates are required to pay the fees through payment
  ii.    Candidates should first scan their latest photograph and                       gateway integrated with the application. No change/ edit in the
         signature. Online application will not be registered unless                    application will be allowed thereafter.
         candidate uploads his/ her photo and signature as specified on          iii.   Fee payment will have to be made online through payment
         the   online    registration   page   (under    ‘How    to   Upload            gateway available thereat. The payment can be made by using
         Document”).                                                                    Debit Card/ Credit Card/ Internet Banking etc. by providing
  iii.   Candidates should fill the application carefully. Once                         information as asked on the screen. Transaction charges for
         application is filled-in completely, candidate should submit the               online payment, if any, will be borne by the candidates.
         same. In the event of candidate not being able to fill the             iv.     On successful completion of the transaction, e-receipt and
         application in one go, he can save the information already                     application form, bearing the date of submission by the
         entered. When the information/ application is saved, a                         candidate, will be generated which should be printed and
         provisional registration number and password is generated by                   retained by the candidate.
         the system and displayed on the screen. Candidate should                v.     If the online payment of fee is not successfully completed in
         note down the registration number and password. They                           first instance, please make fresh attempts to make online
         can re-open the saved application using registration number                    payment.
         and password and edit the particulars, if needed. This facility of     vi.     A provision is there to reprint the e-Receipt and Application form
         editing the saved information will be available for three times                containing fee details, at later stage.
         only. Once the application is filled completely, candidate should      vii.    Application Fee once paid will NOT be refunded on any
         submit the same and proceed for online payment of fee.                         account NOR can it be adjusted for any other examination
 iv.     After registering online, the candidates are advised to take                   or selection in future.
         a printout of the system generated online application
         forms.




                                                                                                                                              Page 8 of 12
J. HOW TO UPLOAD DOCUMENTS:
 a. Details of Document to be uploaded:                                         d. Document file type/ size:
    i.   Recent Photograph                                                           i.   All Documents must be in PDF (except Photograph &
   ii.   Signature                                                                        Signature)
  iii.   Brief Resume (PDF),                                                         ii. Page size of the document to be A4
  iv.    ID Proof (PDF)                                                              iii. Size of the file should not be exceeding 500 kb.
   v.    PAN CARD                                                                    iv. In case of Document being scanned, please ensure it is
  vi.    PwBD certification (if applicable) (PDF)                                         saved as PDF and size not more than 500 kb as PDF. If the
 vii.    Educational    Certificates:   Relevant    Mark-Sheets/     Degree               size of the file is more than 500 kb, then adjust the setting of
         Certificate (PDF)                                                                the scanner such as the DPI resolution, no. of colors etc.,
 viii.   Experience certificates (PDF)                                                    during the process of scanning. Please ensure that
  ix.    Preferred Certificate                                                            Documents uploaded are clear and readable.
   x.    Form-16/Offer Letter/Latest Salary slip from current employer
         (PDF)
  xi.    No Objection Certificate (If applicable) (PDF)
 xii.    Bio-data and CTC Format (PDF)
b. Photograph file type/ size:                                                  e.    Guidelines       for   scanning    of   photograph/     signature/

    i.   Photograph must be a recent passport style colour picture.             documents:

   ii.   Size of file should be between 20 kb - 50 kb and Dimensions 200             i.   Set the scanner resolution to a minimum of 200 dpi (dots per
         x 230 pixels (preferred)                                                         inch)
  iii.   Make sure that the picture is in colour, taken against a light-             ii. Set Color to True Color
         coloured, preferably white, background.                                     iii. Crop the image in the scanner to the edge of the photograph/
  iv.    Look straight at the camera with a relaxed face                                  signature, then use the upload editor to crop the image to the
   v.    If the picture is taken on a sunny day, have the sun behind you,                 final size (as specified above).
         or place yourself in the shade, so that you are not squinting and           iv. The photo/ signature file should be JPG or JPEG format (i.e.
         there are no harsh shadows                                                       file name should appear as: image01.jpg or image01.jpeg).
  vi.    If you have to use flash, ensure there's no "red eye"                       v. Image dimensions can be checked by listing the folder/ files
 vii.    If you wear glasses make sure that there are no reflections, and                 or moving the mouse over the file image icon.
         your eyes can be clearly seen.                                              vi. Candidates using MS Windows/ MSOffice can easily obtain
 viii.   Caps, hats and dark glasses are not acceptable. Religious                        photo and signature in .jpeg format not exceeding 50 kb & 20
         headwear is allowed but it must not cover your face.                             kb respectively by using MS Paint or MSOffice Picture
  ix.    Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 50kb.                 Manager. Scanned photograph and signature in any format
         If the size of the file is more than 50 kb, then adjust the settings             can be saved in .jpg format by using ‘Save As’ option in the
         of the scanner such as the DPI resolution, no. of colour etc.,                   File menu. The file size can be reduced below 50 kb
         during the process of scanning.                                                  (photograph) & 20 kb (signature) by using crop and then
                                                                                          resize option (Please see point (i) & (ii) above for the pixel
                                                                                          size) in the ‘Image’ menu. Similar options are available in
                                                                                          another photo editor also.
                                                                                     vii. While filling in the Online Application Form the candidate will
                                                                                          be provided with a link to upload his/her photograph and
                                                                                          signature.




                                                                                                                                               Page 9 of 12
 c. Signature file type/ size:                                                  f. Procedure for Uploading Document:
  i.     The applicant has to sign on white paper with Black Ink pen.               i.   There will be separate links for uploading each document.
  ii.    The signature must be signed only by the applicant and not by any          ii. Click on the respective link "Upload"
         other person.                                                              iii. Browse & select the location where the JPG or JEPG, PDF,
 iii.    The signature will be used to put on the Call Letter and wherever               DOC or DOCX file has been saved.
         necessary.                                                                 iv. Select the file by clicking on it and click the 'Upload' button.
 iv.     Size of file should be between 10 kb - 20 kb and Dimensions 140            v. Click Preview to confirm the document is uploaded and
         x 60 pixels (preferred).                                                        accessible properly before submitting the application. If the
 v.      Ensure that the size of the scanned image is not more than 20 kb.               file size and format are not as prescribed, an error message
 vi.     Signature in CAPITAL LETTERS shall NOT be accepted.                             will be displayed
                                                                                    vi. Once uploaded/ submitted, the Documents uploaded cannot
                                                                                         be edited/ changed.
                                                                                    vii. After uploading the photograph/ signature in the online
                                                                                         application form candidates should check that the
                                                                                         images are clear and have been uploaded correctly. In
                                                                                         case the photograph or signature is not prominently visible,
                                                                                         the candidate may edit his/ her application and re-upload his/
                                                                                         her photograph or signature, prior to submitting the form. If
                                                                                         the face in the photograph or signature is unclear the
                                                                                         candidate’s application may be rejected.




K. GENERAL INFORMATION:
   I. Before applying for the post, the applicant should ensure that he/         XI.     DECISION OF BANK IN ALL MATTERS REGARDING
         she fulfils the eligibility and other norms mentioned above for that            ELIGIBILITY, CONDUCT OF INTERVIEW, OTHER TESTS
         post as on the specified date and that the particulars furnished by             AND SELECTION WOULD BE FINAL AND BINDING ON ALL
         him/ her are correct in all respects.                                           CANDIDATES.           NO         REPRESENTATION              OR
   II.   Candidates belonging to reserved category including, for whom                   CORRESPONDENCE WILL BE ENTERTAINED BY THE
         no reservation has been mentioned, are free to apply for                        BANK IN THIS REGARD.
         vacancies announced for UR category provided they must fulfil all       XII.    The applicant shall be liable for civil/ criminal consequences
         the eligibility conditions applicable to UR category.                           in case the information submitted in his/ her application are
  III.   IN CASE IT IS DETECTED AT ANY STAGE OF ENGAGEMENT                               found to be false at a later stage.
         THAT AN APPLICANT DOES NOT FULFIL THE ELIGIBILITY                      XIII.    Merely satisfying the eligibility norms does not entitle a
         NORMS AND/ OR THAT HE/ SHE HAS FURNISHED ANY                                    candidate to be called for interview. Bank reserves the right to
         INCORRECT/ FALSE INFORMATION OR HAS SUPPRESSED                                  call only the requisite number of candidates for the interview
         ANY MATERIAL FACT(S), HIS/ HER CANDIDATURE WILL                                 after preliminary screening/ short-listing with reference to
         STAND CANCELLED. IF ANY OF THESE SHORTCOMINGS IS/                               candidate’s qualification, suitability, experience etc.
         ARE DETECTED EVEN AFTER ENGAGEMENT, HIS/ HER                           XIV.     In case of multiple application, only the last valid
         CONTRACTS ARE LIABLE TO BE TERMINATED.                                          (completed) application will be retained, the application
  IV.    The applicant should ensure that the application is strictly in                 fee/ intimation charge paid for other registration will
         accordance with the prescribed format and is properly filled.                   stand forfeited.
   V.    Engagement of selected candidate is subject to his/ her being          XV.      Candidate cannot apply for both the posts. In case a candidate
         declared medically fit as per the requirement of the Bank. Such                 applies for more than One post, only the last valid (completed)

         engagement will also be subject to the conduct rules of the Bank                application of two different posts will be retained, and the
                                                                                         application fee, if any, paid for the other registrations will
         for such post in the Bank, in force at the time of joining the Bank.
                                                                                         stand forfeited.
  VI.    Candidates are advised to keep their e-mail ID active for receiving
                                                                                XVI.     Any legal proceedings in respect of any matter of claim or
         communication viz. call letters/ Interview date advices etc.
                                                                                         dispute arising out of this advertisement and/ or an application
 VII.    The Bank takes no responsibility for any delay in receipt or loss of
                                                                                         in response thereto can be instituted only in Mumbai and
         any communication.
                                                                                         Courts/ Tribunals/ Forums at Mumbai only shall have sole and
 VIII.   Candidates serving in Govt./ Quasi Govt. offices, Public Sector
                                                                                         exclusive jurisdiction to try any cause/ dispute.
         undertakings including Nationalized Banks, Financial Institutions


                                                                                                                                             Page 10 of 12
       and SBI Group companies are advised to submit ‘No Objection             XVII.   Outstation candidates, who may be called for interview after
       Certificate (NOC)’ from their employer at the time of interview,                short-listing will be reimbursed the cost of travelling fare
       failing which their candidature may not be considered and                       (Eligibility will be mentioned in the Call letter) for the shortest
       travelling expenses, if any, otherwise admissible, will not be paid.            route in India OR the actual travel cost in India (whichever is
 IX.   In case of selection, candidates will be required to produce proper             lower) on the basis of actual journey. Local conveyance like
       discharge certificate from the employer at the time of taking up                taxi/cab/personal vehicle expenses/fares will not be payable.
       the engagement.                                                                 A candidate, if found ineligible for the post will not be
 X.    Candidates are advised in their own interest to apply online well               permitted to appear for the interview and will not be
       before the closing date and not to wait till the last date to avoid             reimbursed any fare.
       the possibility of disconnection / inability/ failure to log on to the XVIII.   Bank reserves the Right to cancel the engagement
       website on account of heavy load on internet or website jam. SBI                process entirely or for any particular post at any stage.
       does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being          XIX.   At the time of interview, the candidate will be required to
       able to submit their applications within the last date on account of            provide details regarding criminal cases pending against
       aforesaid reasons or for any other reason beyond the control of                 him/her, if any. The Bank may also conduct independent
       SBI.                                                                            verification, inter alia, including verification of Police
                                                                                       Records, etc. The Bank reserves the right to deny the
                                                                                       engagement depending upon such disclosure and/or
                                                                                       independent verification.


        For any query, please write to us through link “CONTACT US/ Post Your Query” which is available on Bank’s website
                                                   (https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers)

State bank of India does not endorse, authorize or associate with any external coaching platform, consultancy, individual or digital
  channel claiming to provide guaranteed selection, influence in recruitment or insider guidance. Candidates must rely solely in
                                       information available on SBI’s official career portal.


                                                 The Bank is not liable for printing errors, if any.

Mumbai                                                                                                                 GENERAL MANAGER
16.09.2026                                                                                                                 (RP&PM)




                                                                                                                                            Page 11 of 12
                      HOW TO APPLY

    Login to https://sbi.bank.in/web/careers/current-openings

   Scroll down and click on the respective advertisement


  Download advertisement no. CRPD/SCO/2026-27/22
      (Carefully read the detailed advertisement)


                        Apply Online
(Before final submission, please go through your application.
   Corrections will not be allowed after final submission)




                                                                Page 12 of 12
