v9

4.

Te

IMPORTANT DATES:

31/08/2026

Last date for Submission of Applications:

ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS:

(A) Minimum Educational Qualification:

B.Sc. Agriculture or Horticulture from Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR)
recognized University or Institute. Those possessing M.Sc. in any discipline of Agriculture or
Horticulture should mandatorily possess B.Sc. Agriculture or Horticulture.

Note 3: Candidates must possess all prescribed eligibility conditions, including educational qualifications
with relevant documents and age criteria as on the closing date of application. Candidates
awaiting final results are not eligible to apply in terms of Notification No. 177/GEN/DOP dated
29.01.2026.

(B) Other Qualifications:

(a) Must be able to read, write and speak in one of the State languages.

(b) Must be conversant with local customs and traditions of Sikkim.

(C) Age Limit:

Should have attained the age of 18 years, but should not have exceeded 40 years as on 31/08/2026 in
terms of Notification No: M(3)/(55)/GEN/DOP/Pt.IIl dated: 03/07/2017.

Ve!
a Required Documents:
S

‘a) | Candidate must be in possession of either Sikkim Subject Certificate or Certificate of Identification |
issued by the competent authority under relevant orders of the State Government during the time
of online submission of application.

(b) | Category Certificate issued by the | (c) | Should have Valid Local Employment Card issued
competent authority of the Government by the appropriate authority of the Government
of Sikkim. of Sikkim.

(d) | No Objection Certificate from the Head of | (e) | Marital Status certificate (for female candidate).
Department in case of employed In case of married women candidate, COI/SSC of
candidate. Husband should be enclosed.

SCHEME OF EXAMINATION: Candidates are advised to refer to APPENDIX — 1 for Detailed Scheme and
pattern for the Written Examinations. The syllabus can be downloaded from the Sikkim Public Service
Commission website.

Candidate should go through the advertisement and read the instructions provided on the website
carefully before applying online. Applications received through any other mode shall not be accepted and
shall be summarily rejected.

The candidates are advised to apply online from our website http://spsc.sikkim.gov.in/ on or before the
stipulated date and time. Application submitted thereafter will not be accepted and SPSC shall not be
responsible for the same.

Application fee amounting to Rs 200/- only may be paid online through Net Banking or credit and debit card,
(Visa/MasterCard). The amount once deposited shall not be refunded or adjusted against any other purpose.

E-Admit Cards can be downloaded and printed by the eligible candidates after a Notice for the same is
published by the Commission in the official website of the Commission.

Candidates are directed to bring a Photo Identity proof like (Aadhaar Card, Voters Card, Driving License)
along with valid e-Admit cards in the examination centre for proof of identity.

10. Those candidates who qualify in the written examination will be called for the scrutiny of documents. Short

listed candidates are required to submit attested Photocopies of all relevant documents on the dates
specified by the Commission.
