                                          PHYSIOTHERAPIST
                       (Specify requirements, shortlisting and interview information)
Essential Educational Qualifications
Masters in Physiotherapy from any recognized Indian or Foreign University.

Essential Work Experience
Minimum 3 years of work experience as Physiotherapist.

Criteria For Shortlisting Of Candidates For Interview
Short listing of candidates to provide an optimum ratio for the interview will be carried out on following
basis:

INTERVIEW PROCESS
    CATEGORIES              MAX
    FOR                     MAR      SCORING OF MARKS
    EVALUATION              KS
    Total Work
                                     2 marks for every completed 1 year of work experience as
    experience as           20
                                     physiotherapist will be awarded, up to a maximum of 20 marks.
    Physiotherapist
                                     3 marks will be awarded for every completed 1 year of work
    Work experience in               experience as Sports Physiotherapist at a recognized State level /
                            30
    sports                           National level sports organization (Govt. or Pvt.) / teams / player,
                                     up to a maximum of 30 marks.
                                     Percentage of marks >50%–60% – 10 marks
    Marks obtained in
                            20       Percentage of marks >60%–70% – 15 marks
    Master's degree
                                     Percentage of marks >70% – 20 marks
                                     Sports Science – 30
    Masters in
                                     Muscle–Skeleton Science – 15
    Physiotherapy           30
                                     Orthopedics – 15
    (Specialization)
                                     Health promotion in disability rehabilitation – 15
The Candidates will be assessed on the following:
                                                                                 MAXIMUM
     CATEGORIES FOR EVALUATION
                                                                                 MARKS
     Domain Expertise                                                            30
     Practical knowledge                                                         30
     Aptitude for working in a sports organization                               10
     Knowledge related to recent advancements in the relevant discipline         10
     Soft skills                                                                 10
     Knowledge in allied sports science discipline                               10


DOCUMENTS REQUIRED:

Self attested scanned copy of original documents of the following be uploaded:
I. DEGREE AND MARKSHEET:
The certificate uploaded must be one issued by the Competent Authority (i.e. University or other
authority) awarding the particular qualification.

Masters in Physiotherapy from a recognized Indian or Foreign University.

II. WORK EXPERIENCE
Documents claiming work experience must clearly mention the following:

  a. Name of the establishment.
  b. Signature of the competent authority/issuing authority clearly stating their position of authority in
  the organization.
  c. Duration of work experience.
  d. The field in which the candidate has worked or the post held in the establishment.
A) OTHER DOCUMENTS:
  i. Proof of Date of Birth: Aadhar Card/10th class mark sheet/12th class mark sheet.
  ii. Recent passport size color photograph.
  iii. Scanned copy of No Objection Certificate from the present employer, in case working in
  Central/State Government/Autonomous Organizations on a regular basis.
Age Limit: The maximum age shall not be more than 45 years on the last date of receipt of applications.

Remuneration:
           DESIGNATION                 GRADE                       REMUNERATION
            Physiotherapist           GRADE II                     Rs. 60,000–80,000/-

JOB RESPONSIBILITY:
   Designation                       Job Responsibilities
                                     1. Planning and development of physiotherapy protocols.
                                     2. Maintain the record of present and past injuries for the athletes
                                     in the camp/center.
                                     3. Management of hydrotherapy, sauna/steam bath and other
                                     facilities available to the center.
                                     4. Evolve injury prevention strategy for the athlete in
                                     consultation with the team doctor.
   Physiotherapist
                                     5. Injury management in field.
                                     6. Shall be responsible for day-to-day injury prevention and
                                     rehabilitation of the athletes.
                                     7. Assist in injury prevention strategy.
                                     8. Any other duties assigned by High Performance Director,
                                     Sports Science Head and Regional Head and Director General,
                                     STATE SPORTS DEPARTMENT.
