                                      NOTIFICATION
TELANGANA STATE LEVEL POLICE RECRUITMENT BOARD
       DGP OFFICE COMPLEX, LAKDI -KA-PUL, HYDERABAD


 Rc. No. 225 / Rect. / Rect.1 / 2026                                       Date: 29th July 2026


 1. VACANCIES
 Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) invites Applications from
 eligible Candidates through ONLINE mode only in the prescribed proforma, which
 will be made available on the TSLPRB Website (www.tgprb.in), for direct recruitment
 to the following Posts. The details of vacancies are as follows –


 Sl.   Post
                                         Post                          Vacancies     Pay Scale ₹
 No.   Code

                                     Telangana Police Department
  1     11    SCT* Sub Inspector of Police (Civil)                       148
  2     12    S C T* Reserve Sub Inspector of Police (AR)                 14
                                                                                   42,300 -1,15,270
  3     13    S C T* Reserve Sub Inspector of Police (SAR CPL) (Men)      3
  4     14    S C T* Reserve Sub Inspector of Police (TGSP) (Men)         12

                              Telangana Special Protection Force
  5     16    S C T* Sub Inspector                                        44       42,300 -1,15,270

  Telangana Fire, Disaster Response, Emergency, and Civil Defence Department
  6     17    Station Fire Officer                                        39       38,890 -1,12,510

                Telangana Prisons & Correctional Services Department
  7     18    Deputy Jailor (Men)                                         14
                                                                                   38,890 -1,12,510
  8     19    Deputy Jailor (Women)                                       1

                                Total                                    275       Vacancies
 * Stipendiary Cadet Trainee


  Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 1 of 57
The number of vacancies indicated above is only tentative and is liable to change
without any notice. TSLPRB reserves the right to notify required modifications with
regard to any aspect of recruitment during the process of recruitment.


2. CANDIDATES TO CHECK THEIR ELIGIBILITY BEFORE APPLYING

Exact Dates for submission of Online Application Form will be intimated in due course
through a Press Release. Candidates who are desirous and eligible REPEAT: eligible
only may apply through the ONLINE mode only after having satisfied themselves of
their eligibility for this recruitment. (Please see Para 15: Eligibility Conditions of
Candidates to ensure their eligibility for the Post and Para 4: General Instructions)


3. DISTRIBUTION OF VACANCIES

i) The distribution of vacancies for Post Code Nos. 11, 12, and 17, Zone-wise are as
   follows –

                                                   DR* Vacancies of Post Code No.
    Sl.No.                Zone                       11            12           17
                                               SCT SI Civil   SCT RSI AR      SFO
      1         Zone I – Kaleshwaram                 15             6            4
      2         Zone II – Basara                     29             2            5
      3         Zone III – Rajanna                   32             0            7
      4         Zone IV – Bhadradri                  33             6            3
      5         Zone V – Yadadri                     22             0            2
      6         Zone VI – Charminar                  13             0           13
      7         Zone VII – Jogulamba                  4             0            5
                  Total                             148            14           39
* Direct Recruitment




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 2 of 57
ii) The distribution of vacancies for Post Code Nos. 14, 18, and 19, Zone-wise of
    Contiguous Zonal Cadre, is as follows –

                                                    DR*Vacancies of Post Code No.
Sl.
    CZC                  Zone                        14            18           19
No.
                                            SCT RSI TGSP       Dy Jlr (M)   Dy Jlr (W)
 1            Zone I – Kaleshwaram                   1             1             0
 2            Zone II – Basara                       1             2             0
        I
 3            Zone III – Rajanna                     2             2             0
 4            Zone IV – Bhadradri                    2             3             1
 5            Zone V – Yadadri                       1             1             0
 6      II    Zone VI – Charminar                    4             4             0
 7            Zone VII – Jogulamba                   1             1             0
                 Total                               12            14            1
* Direct Recruitment

Note: The distribution of vacancies among the Zones in each Contiguous Zonal Cadre
is made as per the ratios based on the population of each local Zone in the Contiguous
Zonal Cadre as per the ratio communicated by the Government vide GO Ms No. 46,
General Administration (SPF.II) Department, dated 04-04-2022.

4. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

  a) Candidates are required to go through the Notification meticulously and decide
     themselves as to their eligibility with reference to the laid down criteria for this
     recruitment carefully, before applying and filling in all relevant columns in the
     Online Application Form

  b) Applications received online shall only be considered, and the Telangana State
     Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) will not be responsible for any kind
     of discrepancy

  c) TSLPRB will not be responsible for any inconsistencies or errors in the
     Application submitted online. Candidates are advised to strictly follow the
     instructions in their own interest and to verify the contents before submitting the
     Online Application Form


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 3 of 57
 d) Particulars furnished by the Candidates in the Online Application Form will be
    taken as final. Candidates should therefore be very careful in uploading /
    submitting the Online Application Form
 e) No relevant column of the Application Form should be left blank. Incomplete /
    Incorrect Online Application Form will be summarily rejected. Information, if any,
    furnished by the Candidate subsequently in any form will not be entertained by the
    TSLPRB under any circumstances. Candidates should be careful in filling out the
    Online Application Form before submission. If any lapse is detected at any stage
    of the recruitment process, the candidature will be rejected
 f) Candidates should not furnish any particulars that are false, tampered with, or
    fabricated. They shall not suppress or conceal any material information while
    filling out the Online Application Form. In case, if it is found at a later date that
    any false information has been provided, punitive action will be taken as per the
    law
 g) Candidates are expected to behave in an orderly and disciplined manner while
    appearing for the Tests / Examination / Certificates Verification. Any
    impersonation will be viewed adversely, and such Candidates shall be criminally
    prosecuted, besides being disqualified
 h) All the testimonials issued by the Competent Authorities shall compulsorily be
    produced as and when required. If the Candidate fails to produce the same, his /
    her candidature will be rejected / disqualified without any further
    correspondence
 i) The claim of the Candidates with regard to the Age, Date of Birth, Educational
    Qualifications, Community, etc., is accepted only provisionally based on the
    information furnished by them in their Online Application Form and Certificates
    produced, subject to verification and satisfaction of the TSLPRB, at an
    appropriate time. Mere acceptance of the Application, admission to any Exam,
    or inclusion of a Candidate in a Qualified Candidates List does not confer any
    right for selection. The candidature is therefore provisional at all stages and the
    TSLPRB reserves the right to reject his / her candidature at any stage of the
    selection without giving any notice.
 j) Care should be taken to ensure that the preference for Post Code Nos. 11, 12, 16
    and 17 (for Men & Women), for Post Code Nos. 13, 14 and 18 (for Men) and for
    Post Code No. 19 (for Women) is clearly given in the Application Form while
    filling the Part – II Application



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 4 of 57
  k) Due to various Age relaxations being there for different Posts, Age validation is
     not being done in the Online Application Form. It is the responsibility of the
     Candidates to satisfy themselves about their Age eligibility for the Post(s)
     applied for
  l) If Candidates who are Under-Aged or Over-Aged apply for this Recruitment
     Notification, their candidature will be rejected at any time, and TSLPRB is not
     responsible for the same. Fee once paid will not be refunded.
Note: As candidature for the recruitment is processed through Computer / Electronic
devices, based on the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form, the
Candidates are advised to fill in all the relevant particulars carefully.

5. FEE
 a) OC and BC Candidates with local status of Telangana State applying for the Posts
     of SCT SI (Civil / AR / SAR CPL / TGSP), SCT SI in Special Protection Force
     Department, SFO in Telangana Fire, Disaster Response, Emergency & Civil
     Defence Department, Deputy Jailor (Men) / Deputy Jailor (Women) in Prisons &
     Correctional Services Department have to pay the fee as designated in the Online
     Application towards Registration of the Application, Processing of Application,
     Conduct of Tests and Examinations (PWT, PMT / PET, FWE & Certificates
     Verification), Maintenance of Portal etc. However, SC and ST Candidates who
     are Local to Telangana State have to pay the concessional fee as designated in the
     Online Application towards the same. All other Candidates will have to pay the
     fee as designated in the Online Application.


 a) For the Candidates who apply for more than one Notification issued by the
     TSLPRB within a period of 3 months from this date of Notification, the Physical
     Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the Notification(s)
     applied for by a Candidate, will be conducted only once and the same readings /
     scores will be valid for all the Posts for which he / she is applying for among the
     Notifications.




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 5 of 57
b) For Candidates applying for more than one Post among –
    1. SCT SI Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 225/Rect./Rect.-1/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    2. SCT ASI (FPB) [Notification No. 279/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    3. SCT PC Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 189/Rect./Rect.-2/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    4. SCT PC (Mechanic) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    5. SCT PC (Driver) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]

    a rebate of Rs.50/- per each additional Post applied for (in excess of 1 Post) on
    account of the saving incurred due to the conduct of Common Physical
    Measurement Test and Physical Efficiency Test shall be given, in the total fee
    payable, in the case of Local Candidates of Telangana belonging to SC & ST
    categories and a rebate of Rs.100/- per each additional Post applied for (in excess
    of 1 Post) shall be given to all other Candidates.

c) The fee being collected from the Candidates will be towards
       (i) Application Fee, Processing Charges, etc
       (ii) Preliminary Written Test for all the Applicants (One 3-hour Exam)
       (iii) PMT / PET (Physical Efficiency) for all the Applicants Qualified in PWT
             (Events with RFID Bibs / Wrist Bands, Digital Height, and other equipment)
       (iv) Final Written Examination for all the Applicants Qualified in PMT / PET
             (Four 3-hour exams, including two Descriptive Papers Exam)
       (v) Conducting Biometrics at various stages, Examination Fee,
       (vi) Portal Maintenance, Software Development, and Result Processing Charges, etc.


6. PAYMENT OF FEE
   I Step: Candidate has to register himself / herself on the TSLPRB Website –
           www.tgprb.in by making his / her Mobile Number as his / her User ID and
           then choose the Notifications and Posts that he / she would like to apply
           for. The fee payable will be determined based on the Posts he / she applies
           for. Candidates are advised to provide such Mobile Number as their Login
           ID which will be in currency throughout the process of recruitment and
           will be in their personal custody. It shall be their responsibility to ensure
           that this Mobile number is maintained continuously without any
           interruption throughout the process of recruitment, so that there will not
           be any loss of communication between the Board and the Candidates.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                             Page 6 of 57
  II Step: This fee can be paid by using a Credit Card, a Debit Card, Net Banking, or
            a mode made available on the TSLPRB Website.
 III Step:     After making the Payment, it shall be the responsibility of the Candidate
               to visit the website www.tgprb.in to submit the Online Application Form,
               which is in 2 parts, i.e., Part I and Part II. Part I Application has to be
               submitted initially along with a scanned copy of Passport Size Photo +
               specimen Signature combined as one file / image in jpg format. Even after
               making payment of the fee and furnishing the details in the Application
               Form, if the Candidate fails to press the submit button and the Application
               is not uploaded, such Applications shall be rejected without giving any
               notice, and the fee once paid will not be refunded in any case.

  IV Step: Candidates who are declared qualified in the Preliminary Written Test have
            to visit the website www.tgprb.in again for uploading the Part-II
            Application along with the scanned copies of Certificates / Documents.
            For this, dates will be announced later.


7. CANDIDATES SHOULD KEEP READY WITH THE FOLLOWING
   DOCUMENTS TO APPLY
          Candidates are requested to keep ready the following documents before the
scheduled time for submitting the Online Application Form.
     i.     Latest SC Community Certificate with sub-classification of SC Group I, SC
            Group II and SC Group III issued by the Competent Authority of Government
            of Telangana (For SC Candidates only)
    ii. Latest Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Category Certificate issued by
        the Competent Authorities of Government of Telangana issued on or after 1st
        April 2026, wherever applicable
   iii. Latest Non-Creamy Layer Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of
        the Government of Telangana issued on or after 1st April 2026 (For BC
        Candidates only)
   iv. Local Candidature Certificates, i.e., Bonafide from 1st to 7th Class (or)
       Residence Certificate, wherever applicable
    v. Special Category Certificates like Police Executive, Police Ministerial, and
       Children of Police Personnel etc.



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 7 of 57
8. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-I ONLINE APPLICATION
a) Candidates are requested to check their eligibility carefully and fill-in all the
   relevant columns in the Part I Application Form. Candidates should not register
   more than one Application Form for the present Recruitment Process which
   intends to collect information for all the Posts notified through 4 (four) different
   Notifications with Notification Nos. 189 / Rect. / Rect.-2 / 2026, 225 / Rect. /
   Rect.-1 / 2026, 234 & 279 / Rect. / Rect.-3 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026.
b) The following steps are to be followed by the Candidates who intend to submit
   the online Application through the payment gateway –
        i.   Registration using Mobile Phone as User ID
       ii.   Select the Post(s) for which he / she wants to apply as per the eligibility
      iii.   Note the Fee that has to be paid depending on the Posts chosen
      iv.    Payment of Fee using any mode made available
       v.    Continue on TSLPRB Website with the User ID and fill Part-I of the Application
      vi.    Scan and Upload copy of Passport Photograph and Specimen Signature as one file
     vii.    Submit the Application Form
    viii.    Print Application Form / Forms generated for the Notification(s) applied for

c) Candidates should keep ready a soft copy of his / her Passport Size Photo +
   specimen Signature combined as one file image in jpg format as shown below to
   be scanned and uploaded with the Online Application

                                     Recent
                                 Passport Size
                                 Photograph of
                                 the Candidate

                                   Signature

d) Application will be rejected, if the Candidate uploads the Photo without
   Signature. Size of the above image / file should not exceed 100kb (Minimum
   size is 30kb). Please note that if the file is not in JPG format, the system will reject
   it, and the candidate may not be able to complete the process of filling in the
   remaining details of the Online Application Form.
e) After payment of the fee, Candidates can use the "Apply Online" in the main menu
   option on the website (www.tgprb.in) to fill his / her Part I Application Form.


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 8 of 57
f) Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand before
   clicking on "I AGREE".
g) Candidates should endorse the declaration at the end of the Online
   Application, signifying the fact that they have read and understood all the
   Rules and Regulations and that they agree to scrupulously abide by them and
   confirm with an OTP (One Time Password) sent to the Candidate’s
   Registered Mobile.
h) Once the Candidate submits the Application Form, no corrections can be made.
   Hence, candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission.
i) After submission of the Online Application Form, the Candidate must download
   a copy of his / her submitted form in PDF for future use.


9. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-II ONLINE APPLICATION
a)    Candidates who are declared qualified in the Preliminary Written Test have to
      visit the website www.tgprb.in again to submit the Part-II Application.
b)    Post Codes are from 11 to 14 and 16 to 19. Post Preferences / Unit Options once
      exercised are final and cannot be changed thereafter. Candidature will be
      considered as per the preferences indicated in the Application Form as per the
      eligibility. Candidature will not be considered for those Posts / Units which are
      left blank / unfilled by the Candidates
c)    Giving false information, suppression, or concealment of facts will result in the
      disqualification of the Candidates and render them liable for Prosecution
d)    Once the Candidate submits the Application, no corrections can be made. Hence
      Candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission
e)    Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand
      before clicking on "I AGREE"
f)    After successful submission of Online Application, the Candidate will receive
      an Acknowledgment through his / her email Id. (Check SPAM folder of your
      email account if you have not received it in INBOX). The Candidate must
      download a copy of his / her submitted form in Pdf for future use.
g)    Candidates are advised to fill their Online Application Form themselves instead
      of handing it over to others to avoid any wrong entries. If their Online
      Application Form is being filled by some other person the Candidate should
      personally be available and ensure that the entries are made correctly and Online
      Application is uploaded successfully.


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 9 of 57
 h)   Candidature is provisional at all stages. Mere issuance of Hall Ticket to the
      Candidates allowing them to attend the Examination(s) / Test(s) will not imply
      that Candidature has been finally cleared by the TSLPRB. TSLPRB will take
      up the Verification of Eligibility Conditions with reference to their Original
      documents of those Candidates who qualify in Final Written Examination.

10. UPLOADING / SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS
Copies of the following documents must be uploaded in support of the information
given in the Part II Application Form, where necessary, and the documents in original
should be produced at the time of Certificate verification. Failure to upload the same
will lead to rejection of the Online Application Form.

  i. SSC / Matriculation Certificate or its equivalent Certificate in support of Date of
     Birth
 ii. Degree or its equivalent Examination Certificate (See Para No.15(C) of this
     Notification)
 iii. Latest Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of the
      Government of Telangana for claiming Age relaxation/reservation (Candidates
      who belong to the SC Community should submit the Community Certificates
      with SC Sub-classification, i.e., SC Group - I, SC Group - II, and SC Group -
      III)
 iv. Latest Non-Creamy Layer Certificate issued on or after 1 st April 2026 by the
     Competent Authority of the Government of Telangana for BC Candidates, if
     they claim reservation in Selection
 v. Latest Certificate of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category issued on
    or after 1st April 2026 by the Competent Authority of the Government of
    Telangana for claiming Age relaxation / EWS reservation as mentioned at Para
    No. 12 (C) of this Notification
 vi. Agency Area (Local Scheduled Tribe) Certificate issued as per GO Ms No. 24,
     dated 12-06-2018 of the Government of Telangana for ST & Aboriginal Tribe
     Candidates of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool,
     Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad and Warangal
     districts, if they claim relaxation in height as per Para No. 16 (B) (ii) (c) & (d)
     of this Notification
vii. Latest Service Certificate by those Employees / Candidates who are in the
     Telangana State Government Service for claiming Age relaxation (Annexure V)


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 10 of 57
viii.   Necessary Certificate by NCC Instructor for claiming Age relaxation
 ix. Special Category Certificate(s) by those Candidates who claim Special
     reservation (See Para Nos. 20 and 21 of this Notification)
  x. PPO (Pension Payment Order) / Discharge Book, if already discharged from
     service of the Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army, for claiming Age
     relaxation / reservation under the Ex-Servicemen category
 xi. Serving Armed Forces of Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army of the
     Indian Union retiring within one year from the last date on which Part-I
     Application could be submitted, should submit “No Objection Certificate”
     issued by the concerned Unit Commanding Officer duly indicating his Personal
     Number, Rank, Name, Unit and date of retirement or retirement order, for
     claiming Age relaxation / reservation under Ex-Servicemen category
xii. Study / Bonafide / Residence Certificates for claiming Local Candidature (See
     Para No. 18 of this Notification)
xiii.   MSP Certificate(s) for claiming reservation under MSP (See Para No. 12 (D) of
        this Notification)

11. RULES GOVERNING THE POST(S)
   a) Recruitment to the Posts of the Police Department (Post Code Nos. 11 to 14) is
        being made under the Telangana Police (Stipendiary Cadet Trainee) Rules, 1999
        issued in GO Ms No. 315 Home (Police-C) Department, dated 13-10-1999 and
        the amendments issued thereon from time to time by the Government r/w GO
        Ms No. 68, Home (Legal) Department, dated 28-07-2026.

   b) Recruitment to the Post of the Telangana Special Protection Force Department
        (Post Code No. 16) is being made under the Telangana Special Protection Force
        Stipendiary Cadet Trainee Rules, 2026, issued in GO Ms No. 46, Home
        (Services III) Department dated 18-05-2026.

   c) Recruitment to the Post of the Telangana Fire, Disaster Response, Emergency &
        Civil Defence Department (Post Code No. 17) is being made as per the
        provisions of Special Rules for the Telangana Fire, Disaster Response,
        Emergency & Civil Defence Subordinate Service, 2025 issued in GO Ms No. 86



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                Page 11 of 57
      Home (Services IV) Department dated 11-07-2025 r/w GO Ms No. 551, Home
      (Services IV) Department dated 17-07-2026.

  d) Recruitment to the Posts of the Telangana State Prisons and Correctional
      Services Department (Post Code Nos. 18 & 19)is being made as per the
      provisions of Telangana State Jail Subordinate Service Rules issued in GO Ms
      No. 514 Home (Prisons A) Department dated 23-11-1993 r/w GO Ms No. 303
      Home (Prisons A) Department dated 20-12-2007 and further amendments issued
      thereon from time to time by the Government r/w GO Ms No. 17, Home (Legal)
      Department, dated 22-04-2022.


12. SPECIAL REPRESENTATION (RESERVATION)

A) Reservation:
The rule of Special Representation (Reservation), i.e., BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D, BC-
E, SC, ST, Ex-Servicemen, Meritorious Sports Person, and Economically Weaker
Section category provided in Rule 22 of Telangana State & Subordinate Service Rules,
1996, shall be applicable to all the Posts. Further, Rule 22-A of the Telangana State
and Subordinate Service Rules 1996 shall be applicable only to the Post Code Nos. 11,
16, and 17.

B) Community:

  i. SC and ST Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the
      definition given in the Presidential Order, 2018, are required to produce the latest
      Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of the Government
      of Telangana State for claiming Age relaxation / reservation. Candidates who
      belong to the SC Category should submit a Community Certificate as per Act
      No. 15 of 2025, dated 14-04-2025, issued by the Government of Telangana with
      regard to reservations to SCs by way of sub-classification in the State, i.e., SC
      Group - I, SC Group - II, and SC Group – III.



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 12 of 57
 ii.        BC Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the definition
            given in the Presidential Order 2018, are required to produce Community
            Certificate (BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D & BC-E) from the Competent Authority
            of the Telangana State Government.

 iii. Candidates belong to Backward Classes shall submit the Community Certificate
            to claim Age relaxation and the latest Certificate of Non Creamy Layer issued
            by the Competent Authorities of Telangana State on or after 01-04-2026 to claim
            Reservation. In case of failure to produce the Non-Creamy Layer Certificate on
            the day of Certificates Verification, such Candidates will be considered under
            “Open Competition”, if otherwise eligible, and the status cannot be changed
            later.

 iv. Relaxation in upper age limit and / or reservation to BC-E Group will be subject
            to the adjudication of the litigation pending before the Honourable Courts
            including final orders in Civil Appeal No(s). 2628-2637 of 2010 in SLP No.
            7388-97 of 2010 dated 25-03-2010 and orders of the Government.

 v. BC, SC, and ST Candidates who are not local to Telangana State, as per the
            Presidential order 2018, are not entitled to any kind of reservation.


C) Economically Weaker Section (EWS):

Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the definition given in
the Presidential Order 2018 and belonging to Economically Weaker Section category
(as per GO Ms No. 65, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 19.03.2021 r/w GO Ms No.
244, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 24-08-2021) shall submit the Income and Asset
Certificate issued by any of the following Authorities of Government of Telangana
State to claim Age relaxation and Reservation under this Category.

       i)     District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Sub-
              divisional Magistrate / Mandal Revenue Officer
       ii) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahsildar and


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                         Page 13 of 57
     iii) Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the Candidate and / or his family
          normally resides

D) Meritorious Sports Persons:
Persons who satisfy the definition given in sub-rule (20) of Rule 2 of Telangana State
and Subordinate Service Rules, 1996, and who possess the necessary certificate issued
by the Competent Authority clearly certifying that the qualifying participation was
prior to the date of this Notification, will come under this reservation, and it will be
applicable to the following categories only:

 Category 1:       A sportsperson who won medals or represented India in an
                   International Competition / Multinational Competition in any one of
                   the recognized Games / Sports which are mentioned in Annexure I
                   of GO Ms No. 74, YATC (Sports) Department dated 9-8-2012, and
                   as subsequently amended from time to time.

 Category 2:       A sportsperson who won medals or represented a State in India in a
                   National Competition in any one of the recognized Games / Sports
                   which are mentioned in Annexure I of GO Ms No. 74, YATC
                   (Sports) Department dated 9-8-2012, and as subsequently amended
                   from time to time.

Note:

i) Candidates who come under category (1) above shall be considered initially to fill the
vacancies under MSP reservation. If sufficient Candidates of category (1) are not available,
then the Candidates from category (2) shall be considered for the relevant Posts.

ii) Where there is more number of Candidates possessing the certificates of same
category available, then marks secured by them during the final selection shall be taken
to decide the inter-se-merit.

iii) In the event of non-availability of eligible sports persons, the vacancies reserved
for them shall be allotted to Open Competition in the same recruitment.




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 14 of 57
E) WOMEN RESERVATION

33⅓% of the vacancies in each category, including EWS, are reserved for Women for
the Post Code Nos. 11, 16, and 17. Similarly, 10% of the vacancies in each category,
including EWS, are reserved for Women for the Post Code No. 12 under Direct
Recruitment, in relaxation of relevant rules relating to Telangana State and Subordinate
Service Rules, 1996. The reservation for Women will be a horizontal reservation
following the principle of sufficiency, i.e., the reservation of Women Candidates shall
be adjusted proportionately in the respective category to which the Woman Candidate
belongs. In the event of non-availability of eligible and suitable Women Candidates,
the vacancies reserved for them shall not be carried forward for the succeeding
recruitment and shall be filled up by Men Candidates of the respective Communal
Category.

13. INSTRUCTIONS TO BE READ CAREFULLY
The requisite Educational qualification, Age, Physical standards, Procedure to be
followed for selection, etc., are given below. Candidates must read the instructions
given in this Notification carefully in their own interest.

14. SPECIAL CATEGORIES RESERVATIONS FOR TELANGANA
    LOCAL CANDIDATES ONLY
All Special Category reservations are applicable to the Local Candidates of Telangana
State only. Vacancies reserved for Special Categories i.e., Police Executive (PE);
Police Ministerial (PM); Members of Telangana Special Protection Force (MoSPF),
National Cadet Corps (NCC); Children of Police Personnel (CPP); Children of
Deceased & Incapacitated Police Personnel (CDI), Children of Telangana Special
Protection Force (CSPF), Children of Prisons Department Personnel (CJP) and
Children of members of Fire services (CFSP) shall be adjusted in a horizontal manner
i.e., the reservation of Special Category Candidates shall be adjusted proportionately
in the respective Communal Category to which the Candidate belongs. The Percentage
of vacancies reserved for the above Special Categories shall be calculated for each
category based on the vacancies notified.




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 15 of 57
15. ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS (CANDIDATES TO ENSURE THEIR
    ELIGIBILITY FOR THE EXAMINATION)
Candidates applying for the examination should ensure themselves that they fulfill all
the eligibility conditions for admission to the examination. Their admission at all the
stages of the Examination(s) / Test(s) will be purely provisional and shall be subject to
satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions.

Mere issue of Hall Ticket to the Candidate will not imply that his / her candidature has
been finally cleared by the Board.

TSLPRB will take up verification of eligibility conditions with reference to original
documents only after the Candidate has finally qualified or at an appropriate time.

 A. Eligibility by Gender: For the Posts Code Nos. 11, 12, 16 & 17, both Men and
      Women are eligible, for Post Code Nos. 13, 14 & 18, only men are eligible, and
      for Post Code No. 19, only Women are eligible.
 B.    i) Age Limit (General): Must have attained the age of 21 years and must not
       have attained the age of 25 years as on 1 st July, 2026. However, the Government
       of Telangana vide GO Ms No. 87, General Administration (Services-A)
       Department dated 18-05-2026 have raised the upper age limit prescribed for
       direct recruitment by 5 (five) years for uniformed services including Police, Fire
       Services, Prisons and Special Protection Force Departments. This relaxation is in
       addition to the upper age limit as mentioned above.
       ii) Relaxation in Upper Age Limit: The Upper age limit prescribed above is
       however relaxable in the following cases:

       Sl.No.            Category of Candidates                Relaxation of Age

                  Telangana        State     Government
                  Employees (Employees of TS
                  TRANSCO, DISCOMs, TS GENCO,
                                                        Length of regular service
                  State Road Transport Corporation and
          1                                             subject to a maximum period
                  other Telangana State Corporations,
                                                        of 5 (five) Years
                  Municipalities, Local Bodies, Public
                  Sector Undertakings etc., are not
                  entitled for age relaxation)



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 16 of 57
      Sl.No.            Category of Candidates                  Relaxation of Age

                                                      3 (three) Years in addition to
                 Ex-Servicemen (Served in Army /
         2                                            the length of Service rendered
                 Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army)
                                                      in the Armed Forces

                 NCC Instructor (rendered a minimum 3 (three) Years in addition to
         3       service of 6 months as a whole time the length of Service
                 Cadet Corps Instructor in NCC)      rendered in the NCC

         4       SCs, STs, BCs and EWS category           5 (five) Years
   Save as provided above, the age limits prescribed can in no case be relaxed.
      Note:
      1. Persons serving in the Armed Forces of the Indian Union, who on Retirement
      from Service, would come under the category of Ex-Servicemen, may be
      permitted to apply for re-employment one year before the completion of the
      specified terms of engagement and avail themselves of all the concessions
      available to Ex-Servicemen
      2. Name and date of birth accepted by the TSLPRB is that entered in the
      Secondary School Certificate, Matriculation, or an equivalent examination
      certificate. No other document relating to age, like horoscopes, Affidavits, birth
      extracts from Municipal Corporation, Service Records, and the like, will be
      accepted

 C. Educational Qualification:

      i) Must possess a Degree awarded by any university in India, established or
      incorporated by or under a Central Act, Provincial Act of State, or of any
      Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission or any other
      equivalent qualification as on the date of Notification, i.e., 29th July 2026.

      Provided that, a Degree or Provisional Certificate or Consolidated Marks Memo
      of the whole duration of study, which proves the qualification, shall be made
      available by the Candidate at the time of certificate verification to prove his / her
      qualification issued by the University on or before 29th July 2026. If any
      Candidate fails to produce the required pass certificate as above on the


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 17 of 57
      designated day, then it shall be deemed that he / she does not possess the required
      qualification and such candidature shall not be taken forward. Any certificates
      produced after the last date of Certificate Verification shall not be taken into
      consideration.

      ii) Distance Education: Candidates who have obtained a degree through Open
      Universities / Distance Education mode are required to have recognition by the
      University Grants Commission / AICTE / Distance Education Council, as the
      case may be. Unless such Degrees had been recognized by the relevant Statutory
      Authority, they will not be accepted for the purpose of Educational Qualification.
      The onus of proof of recognition of the Degrees / Universities by the relevant
      statutory authorities rests with the Candidate.

       Note: Candidates who possess a higher qualification than the prescribed one will
       also be considered on par with the Candidates who possess the prescribed
       qualification


 D. Technical Qualification for Post Code 17: Candidates must have possessed a
      valid Light Motor Vehicle (LMV) driving license as on the date of Notification.

      Note: Candidate should furnish the valid Driving Licence Information (Grant of
      Issue of Driving Licence) issued by the Licensing Authority of the RTA
      concerned at the time of Certificates Verification.

 E. Medical Standards:
      i) Eye Sight: Visual Standards required for the above selection shall be as
         follows –
                                 Right Eye Left Eye
             Distant Vision        6/6          6/6
             Near Vision           0/5          0/5
                                 (Snellen) (Snellen)
      ii) Each eye must have a full field of vision
      iii) Colour blindness, squint, or any morbid condition of the eye or lids of either
           eye shall be deemed to be a disqualification


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 18 of 57
      iv) Candidate should possess sound health and be free from any bodily defect or
          infirmity which will render him / her unfit for the Posts notified
       v) Candidates who have the following ailments or defects will not be
          considered for recruitment to any post specified in this rule
            i) Physically handicapped
            ii) Knock-knees, pigeon chest, flat foot, Varicose veins, Hammer toes,
                fractured limbs, decayed teeth, stammering, hard of hearing, and
                abnormal psychological behavior
      vi) Candidates provisionally selected shall be referred to the District
          Headquarter Hospital for Medical Examination / Fitness. For any expert
          opinion, Candidates shall be referred to Osmania / Gandhi Hospitals,
          Hyderabad, on the basis of the recommendations made by the District
          Headquarters Hospitals. Candidates who are declared unfit in eye related
          issues shall be referred to the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Hyderabad based
          on the recommendation made by the District Headquarters Hospital. The
          opinion given by the Sarojini Devi Hospital shall be final. The Candidates
          can be referred / examined only once on such recommendations. There shall
          not be any further re-examination once the Candidate is already examined as
          per the referral of the District Headquarters Hospital for expert opinion.
          Where there is no referral for expert opinion from the District Headquarters
          Hospital, such Candidates shall not be referred any further.

          Note: In order to avert getting disappointed at a later stage, Candidates are
          advised to have themselves examined by a Civil Surgeon before applying for
          the examination to ensure that they meet the prescribed Physical and
          Medical Standards.


16. SELECTION PROCEDURE / SCHEME

The Selection Procedure / Scheme of the Examination will be as follows –
A) Preliminary Written Test: All the eligible registered Candidates shall be required
to appear for the Preliminary Written Test in one paper (three hours duration), whose
details are given below. The Hall Ticket will be issued online for this purpose. Syllabus
for the PWT is given in Annexure II.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 19 of 57
        Paper                               Subject                   Max. Marks

   Preliminary Arithmetic and Test of Reasoning / Mental
                Ability (100 Questions) and General Studies                200
   Written Test (100 Questions) (Objective in nature)

Note:
1) The minimum marks to be secured by the Candidates in order to qualify in the
Preliminary Written Test paper is 30% for OCs, including EWS, 25% for BCs, and
20% for SCs / STs / Ex-Servicemen.
2) Questions in the Paper shall be objective in nature. Candidates have to answer the
questions on an OMR answer sheet using a Blue / black ball-point pen only.
3) For each question, the Candidate shall be awarded full marks, assigned to that
question, if he / she darkened only one bubble that corresponds to the correct answer.
In case the Candidate has not darkened any bubble, the Candidate shall be awarded
zero marks for that question. In all other cases, 20% of full marks shall be awarded as
a negative mark for that question.
4) Questions in the Written Test shall be set in English-Telugu & English Urdu
languages, and in case of terminology of Science, technology / Management,
transliteration will be employed at the expert's discretion. In case of any ambiguity or
spelling mistake in Translation / Transliteration in any Question in the Telugu or Urdu
language, the English version shall be considered as final and the correct version.
5) Wherever any question/s are deleted in the final Answer key in Preliminary Written
Test, each Candidate will be compensated with reference to the deleted questions in
proportion to the percentage of the marks obtained by him / her in the other questions
(which remain undeleted)

Intimation Letter: Candidates who qualify in the Preliminary Written Test will be
informed of the dates for downloading the Intimation Letter through the website
(www.tgprb.in) for appearing in the PMT / PET with details of Venue, Date, and Time.
Candidates should bring the Intimation Letter while attending the PMT / PET.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 20 of 57
B) Sequence of Physical Efficiency Test and Physical Measurements:- Candidates
who qualify in the above Preliminary Written Test shall be required to undergo the
following tests and qualify as specified below:

i) 1600 meters / 800 meters Run event:-Men Candidates must qualify in the 1600 meters
Run within a maximum time of 7 Minutes 15 Seconds. For Ex-Servicemen, the maximum
time is 9 minutes and 30 Seconds. Women Candidates must qualify in the 800-meter run
within a maximum time of 5 Minutes 20 Seconds. For Post Code Nos. 11, 17, 18, and 19
- the Run event is qualifying in nature. For Post Code Nos. 12, 13, 14, and 16 – Candidates
shall be awarded marks for their performance in the Run event, as shown in Annexure - I.

While conducting the 1600 meters and 800 meters run events, where RFID-based readings
are taken, the competitors perform totally independently of each other. Consequently,
starting time, finishing time, and duration are automatically recorded individually for each
competitor. Nevertheless, wherever required, only the curved-start (not staggered-start)
method, wherein the competitors can change lanes immediately after the start, will be
adopted. All digitally recorded readings shall be rounded mathematically to 2 decimal
places to determine qualification / disqualification and also gradation.

For Post Code Nos. 12 & 16, i.e., SCT RSI (AR) and SCT SI in SPF, the marks secured
by Men and Women in the Run event shall be normalized using the following formula or
any other procedure / formula to be adopted by the TSLPRB as approved by the
Government, to ensure fairness. The normalized marks in the 1600 meters / 800 meters
Run event shall be taken while drawing the final merit list.




Where –
SD            =     Standard Deviation
Avg           =     Mean or Average
Subscript T   = Total or All the Qualified Candidates
Subscript S   =     of all the Qualified Candidates pertaining to the Gender Group of
                   the Candidate




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 21 of 57
Subscript TT =      of the Top 0.1% or Top 10 (whichever is higher) Candidates
                     among all the Qualified Candidates
Subscript ST =      of the Top 0.1% or Top 10 (whichever is higher) Candidates
                    among all the Qualified Candidates pertaining to the Gender
                    Group of the Candidate.

The Normalized marks will be rounded up to the third decimal place, and their value
will be considered as it is.


ii) Physical Measurements: Candidates who qualify in the above Run event should
meet the following requirements:

    a)     For the Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 & 16 to 18 (Men) –

           Height: Must not be less than 167.6 cms

    b)     For the Post Code Nos. 11, 12, 16, 17, and 19 (Women) –

           Height: Must not be less than 152.5 cms

Provided that, Candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes and Aboriginal Tribes in the
Agency areas of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool,
Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad, and Warangal districts
should meet the following requirements:

    c)     For the Post Code Nos. 11 to 14, 16 to 18 (Men) –

           Height: Must not be less than 160 cms

    d)     For the Post Code Nos. 11, 12, 16, 17, and 19 (Women) –

           Height: Must not be less than 150 cms


iii. Long Jump / Shot-put events: Candidates declared qualified in the Physical
Measurements as above shall be required to undergo the remaining PET events and
must qualify as detailed below:



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                Page 22 of 57
                                                           Qualifying Distance
 Sl.                                   Men Candidates for Post            Women Candidates
                   Item                                                   for Post Code Nos.
 No.                                  Code Nos. 11 to 14 & 16 to 18
                                                                           11, 12, 16, 17, and
                                        General        Ex-Servicemen                19
  1    Long Jump                        4 Meters           3.50 Meters           2.50 Meters

       Shot-put (7.26 Kgs for
  2                                     6 Meters            6 Meters              4 Meters
       Men / 4 Kgs for Women)
Long jump and Shot-put Events are only qualifying in nature

Note: Physical Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the
Notification(s) issued by TSLPRB (within a period of 3 months) applied for by a
Candidate, will be conducted only once, and the same readings / scores will be valid
for all the Posts for which he / she is applying among the Notifications.


Intimation Letter: Candidates who qualify in the Physical Measurement Test /
Physical Efficiency Test will be issued Hall Tickets for appearing in the Final Written
Examination with details of Venue, Date, and Time. Candidates should bring the Hall
Ticket when they come to attend the Final Written Examination.

C) Final Written Examination (FWE): Candidates who qualify in the above Physical
Efficiency Test shall be required to appear for the Final Written Examination in 4 (four)
papers (each of three hours duration) as given below. The syllabus for this exam is
given in Annexure III.

                                                                            Max. Marks for

 Paper                               Subject                             Post Code      Post Code
                                                                         Nos. 11, 17    Nos. 12 to
                                                                         18 and 19      14 and 16
                       Part A-Objective type - MCQs          25 Marks
Paper I     English                                                         100              100
                       Part B-Descriptive type               75 Marks
            Telugu/    Part A-Objective type - MCQs          25 Marks
Paper II     Urdu                                                           100              100
                       Part B-Descriptive type               75 Marks
            Arithmetic and Test of Reasoning / Mental Ability
Paper III                                                                   200              100
            (Objective in nature) (200 Questions)
Paper IV    General Studies (Objective in nature) (200 Questions)           200              100


 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 23 of 57
Note:
1) The minimum marks to be secured by the Candidates in order to qualify in the
Written Examination in each paper is 40% for OCs, including EWS, 35% for BCs, and
30% for SCs / STs / Ex. Servicemen. The same minimum qualifying marks shall apply
to the Candidates who belong to special categories referred to in para 21 in the
Notification, in respect of their social categories.
2) Papers I and II are qualifying in nature, and the marks secured in these Papers, i.e.,
I and II, shall not be taken into account for final selection. Those Candidates who do
not secure the minimum qualifying marks in these papers shall not be considered further
in the selection process, irrespective of their performance in Papers III and IV.
3) Part A of Papers I and II referred to above shall be objective in nature, and
Candidates have to answer the questions using a Blue / Black Ball Point pen only, and
Part B of Papers I and II are descriptive in nature.
4) For each question in Part A of Papers I and II, the Candidate shall be awarded full
marks assigned to that question if he / she darkened only one bubble that corresponds
to the correct answer. In case the Candidate has not darkened any bubble, the
Candidate shall be awarded zero mark for that question. In all other cases, 25% of the
full marks shall be awarded as negative mark for that question.
5) In Paper II, the Candidates can choose to have either Telugu or Urdu and should
indicate their choice as and when asked for. Option once exercised shall be final and
Candidate shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
6) Questions in Papers III and IV shall be objective in nature. Candidates have to
answer the questions on an OMR answer sheet using Blue / Black Ball Point pen only.
Candidates who secured 40% and above in each Paper, i.e., Paper-III and Paper-IV
only, are eligible to be considered for selection for Posts under OC / EWS irrespective
of social categories.
7) Appearance in all the Tests and Written Examinations, as per rules, is compulsory.
Absence in any of the above Tests / Examination shall automatically render a
Candidate disqualified.
8) Mere securing of minimum qualifying marks does not vest any right in a Candidate
to be considered for selection.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 24 of 57
9) Questions in the Paper III and Paper IV shall be set in English-Telugu & English-
Urdu languages and in case of terminology of Science, technology / Management
transliteration will be employed at the expert’s discretion. In case of any ambiguity or
spelling mistake in Translation / Transliteration in any Question in Telugu or Urdu
language, English version shall be considered as final and the correct version.
10) While evaluating Objective type Papers, the marks for the deleted questions, if any,
will be awarded to each Candidate proportionately and the marks would be considered
up to 3 (three) decimal places, to determine the merit of the Candidate. Thus, with
reference to deleted questions, each Candidate will be compensated in proportion to
his / her percentage of marks obtained in the rest of the questions (which remain
undeleted)


D) No Postponement / Reconsideration of Tests including PMT / PET during
recruitment process:- Candidates should be fit in all aspects at all stages of
recruitments including PMT / PET. No Postponement / reconsideration of stages under
any circumstances shall be allowed. A Candidate has to undergo the tests including PMT
/ PET on the designated day in the sequential order as prescribed above.

E) Final Selection:
i) For Post Code No. 11: The final selection of the Candidates will be made strictly on
relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of Paper III and
Paper IV of the Final Written Examination. 95% of the vacancies in the Zones as
organized under “The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres
and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w GO Ms No. 170, GA (SPF.II)
Department, dated 04-08-2021 shall be filled up from the Local Candidates of the
respective Zones.

ii) For Post Code No.12: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly
on their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their score of the Final Written
Examination (Papers III and Paper IV) and Physical Efficiency Test (1600 mtrs / 800
mtrs run). The marks secured by Men and Women in PET shall be normalized by using
the formula prescribed by the TSLPRB to ensure fairness. The said normalized marks
shall be the basis for drawing the Final common Merit List. 95% of the vacancies in


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 25 of 57
the Zones as organized under “The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of
Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w GO Ms No. 173,
GA (SPF.II) Department, dated 04-08-2021 shall be filled up from the Local
Candidates of respective zones.

iii) For Post Code Nos. 13: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly on
their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of the Final Written
Examination (Papers III and Paper IV) and Physical Efficiency Test (1600 meters Run
event). The provisions of “The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local
Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” are not applicable to this
selection. To avail of any vertical or horizontal reservation, the Candidate must be a Local
of Telangana State as defined in the Presidential Order and having Community Certificate
issued by the Competent Authority of Telangana State.

iv) For Post Code No. 14: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly
on their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of the Final
Written Examination (Papers III and Paper IV) and Physical Efficiency Test (1600
meters Run event). 95% of the vacancies in the Contiguous Zones as organized under
“The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of
Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w GO Ms No. 172, GA (SPF. II) Department, dated
04-08-2021, shall be filled up from the Local Candidates of the Contiguous Zones as
per GO Ms No. 46, GA (SPF. II) Department, dated 04-04-2022.
v) For Post Code No.16: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly
on their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their score of the Final Written
Examination (Papers III and Paper IV) and Physical Efficiency Test (1600 mtrs / 800
mtrs run). The marks secured by Men and Women in PET shall be normalized by using
the formula prescribed by the TSLPRB to ensure fairness. The said normalized marks
shall be the basis for drawing the Final common Merit List. The provisions of “The
Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct
Recruitment) Order, 2018” are not applicable to this selection. To avail of any vertical
or horizontal reservation, the Candidate must be a Local of Telangana State as defined
in the Presidential Order and having Community Certificate issued by the Competent
Authority of Telangana State.


 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 26 of 57
vi) For Post Code No. 17: The final selection of the Candidates will be made strictly
on relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of Paper III and
Paper IV of the Final Written Examination. 95% of the vacancies of Station Fire
Officer in the Zones as organized under “The Telangana Public Employment
(Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w
GO Ms No. 167, GA (SPF.II) Department, dated 04-08-2021 shall be filled up from
the Local Candidates of the respective Zones.

vii) For Post Code Nos. 18 and 19: The final selection of the Candidates will be made
strictly on relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of Paper
III and Paper IV of the Final Written Examination. 95% of the vacancies of Deputy
Jailor (Men) / Deputy Jailor (Women) in the Contiguous Zones as organized under
“The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of
Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w GO Ms No. 54, GA (SPF.II) Department, dated
20-04-2022 shall be filled up from the Local Candidates of the respective Contiguous
Zones.

F) Merit among Candidates who secure same Marks: When 2 (two) or more
Candidates in a particular category obtain equal marks, preference will be given to the
Candidate who was born earlier.


17. CERTIFICATES VERIFICATION
Candidates who are qualified in the Final Written Examination will be called for
Certificates Verification and they have to produce Original Documents (along with two
sets of photocopies) and other particulars on the day of verification itself for verification
or as and when required and called for. If Candidate(s) fails to produce the Certificates
at the time of verification or if the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form
do not tally with the Original Documents produced by the Candidate(s), the candidature
will be rejected / disqualified without any further correspondence.




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 27 of 57
18.RESERVATION TO LOCAL CANDIDATES
Reservation to Local Candidates is applicable as per the provisions of “The Telangana
Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct
Recruitment) Order, 2018” issued in GO Ms No. 124 General Administrative (SPF-
MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018.               Candidates claiming Reservation as local
Candidates should enclose the required Study Certificate(s) for the duration of
education from I class to VII class issued by the Government School Authorities /
Government Recognized School authorities. Within the 7 (seven) years, in case the
Candidate did not study in any Government or Government Recognized School, then,
Residence Certificate (for such period) issued by Tahsildar of the concerned Mandal,
should be enclosed for determining local Status.
Note:

a) Single certificate, whether of study or residence would suffice for enabling the
Candidate to apply as a “Local Candidate”
b) Residence certificate will not be accepted, if a Candidate has studied in any
Educational Institution up to 7th class or equivalent examination. Such candidates
have to produce study certificates only, invariably. The Candidates, who acquired
degree from Open Universities without studying 7th class or equivalent in Educational
Institutions, have to submit Residence Certificate only. Educational Institution means
an institution recognized by the Government / University / Competent Authority.

Police Districts / Police Commissionerates within each of the 7 (seven) Police Zones
for Post Code No. 11 and 12 is shown in the following Table.

        Zones                          Police Districts / Commissionerates

  I–Kaleshwaram         Bhupalapally–Jayashankar, Asifabad-Komarambheem,
                        Ramagundam Police Commissionerate, Mulugu

      II–Basara         Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad Police Commissionerate, Jagitial

    III–Rajanna         Karimnagar Police Commissionerate, Siddipet Police
                        Commissionerate, Sircilla-Rajanna, Kamareddy, Medak




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 28 of 57
      Zones                           Police Districts / Commissionerates

   IV–Bhadradri        Kothagudem-Bhadradri, Khammam Police Commissionerate,
                       Mahabubabad, Warangal Police Commissionerate

    V–Yadadri          Suryapet, Nalgonda, Rachakonda Police Commissionerate

                       Hyderabad Police Commissionerate, Cyberabad Police
  VI–Charminar
                       Commissionerate, Sangareddy, Vikarabad

                       Mahabubnagar, Narayanpet, Gadwal-Jogulamba, Wanaparthy,
  VII–Jogulamba
                       Nagarkurnool


Police Zones within each of the Contiguous Zones for Post Code No. 14 is shown in
the following Table.

                 Contiguous Zones                          Zones

                                               Zone–I: Kaleshwaram

                                               Zone–II: Basara
                 Contiguous Zone–I
                                               Zone–III: Rajanna

                                               Zone–IV: Bhadradri

                                               Zone–V: Yadadri

                 Contiguous Zone–II            Zone–VI: Charminar

                                               Zone–VII: Jogulamba

Revenue Districts within each of the 7 (seven) Zones for Post Code No. 17 is shown in
the following Table.

      Zones                           Police Districts / Commissionerates

  I–Kaleshwaram        Asifabad-KomaramBheem, Mancherial, Peddapally,
                       Jaishankar-Bhupalapally and Mulugu Districts

     II–Basara         Adilabad,Nirmal, Nizamabad and Jagitial Districts



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 29 of 57
      Zones                           Police Districts / Commissionerates

   III–Rajanna         Karimnagar, Sircilla-Rajanna, Siddipet, Medak and Kamareddy
                       Districts

   IV–Bhadradri        Kothagudem-Bhadradri, Khammam, Mahaboobabad, Warangal
                       and Hanumakonda Districts

    V–Yadadri          Suryapet, Nalgonda, Bhongir-Yadadri and Jangaon Districts

                       Medchal-Malkajgiri, Hyderabad, RangaReddy, Sangareddy and
  VI–Charminar
                       Vikarabad Districts

                       Mahabubnagar, Narayanpet, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Wanaparthy
  VII–Jogulamba
                       and Nagarkurnool Districts

Revenue Zones within each of the Contiguous Zones for Post Code Nos. 18 and 19 is
shown in the following Table.

                 Contiguous Zones                          Zones

                                               Zone–I: Kaleshwaram

                                               Zone–II: Basara
                 Contiguous Zone–I
                                               Zone–III: Rajanna

                                               Zone–IV: Bhadradri

                                               Zone–V: Yadadri

                 Contiguous Zone–II            Zone–VI: Charminar

                                               Zone–VII: Jogulamba


19. LOCAL RESERVATION
Local Reservation shall be followed in terms of Para (7) of Telangana Public
Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct recruitment),
Order 2018 issued in GO Ms No. 124, GA (SPF.MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018
r/w GO Ms No. 128 GA (SPF-I) Department dated 30-06-2021 and GO Ms No. 46 GA


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 30 of 57
(SPF-II) Department, dated 04-04-2022 and subsequent Orders issued by the
Government from time to time.

20. PERCENTAGE OF QUOTAS IN SPECIAL CATEGORIES
   i. For Post Code Nos. 11 and 14: 5% for Police Executive (PE), 3% for NCC,
      2% for Children of Police Personnel (CPP), 2% for CDI and 1% for Police
      Ministerial (PM)

   ii. For Post Code Nos. 12 and 13: 7% for Police Executive (PE), 3% for NCC,
       2% for Children of Police Personnel (CPP), 2% for CDI and 1% for Police
       Ministerial (PM)
  iii. For Post Code No. 16: 2% for Members of Telangana Special Protection Force
       (MoSPF), 5% for Children of Telangana Special Protection Force Personnel
       (CSPF) and 2% for NCC
  iv. For Post Code No. 17: 5% for Children of Members of Fire Services Personnel
      (CFSP)

   v. For Post Code Nos. 18 and 19: 5% for Children of Prisons Department
      Personnel (CJP)


21. SPECIAL CATEGORIES
Candidates who claim Reservation / Quota under following Special Categories should
satisfy the given conditions –

     (i) Police Executive (PE) - Police Constables, Head Constables and Assistant
          Sub Inspectors of Police and equivalent ranks working in Telangana State
          Police department, who are approved probationers and have completed three
          years of service as on the date of this Notification are eligible under PE quota.

     (ii) Police Ministerial (PM) – Ministerial Staff as mentioned in Category (2)
          and (3) of Class – A and Category (2) and (4) of Class – B of Rule 2 of
          Telangana State Ministerial Service Rules, 1998, working in Telangana State
          Police department, who are approved probationers and have completed three
          years of service as on the date of this notification are eligible under PM quota.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 31 of 57
    (iii) Children of Police Personnel (CPP) – Children of Police Constables and up
          to the rank of Inspectors of Police working in Telangana State Police
          department, as on date of this notification, who are either in service in those
          ranks or retired or died are eligible under this quota. The benefit of CPP quota
          is limited only to the first two children in a family.

    (iv) Children of Deceased and Incapacitated Police Personnel (CDI) – (1)
          Children of Police Personnel of Telangana State Police Department who (a)
          died due to violent action of Extremists / Criminals / Anti-social elements or
          (b) were Incapacitated and were Retired on Medical Invalidation due to
          violent action of the Extremists / Criminals / Anti-social elements and (2)
          Children of Police personnel of Telangana State Police Department who (a)
          died due to violence while on duty or (b) were Incapacitated and were Retired
          on Medical Invalidation due to violence while on duty are eligible under CDI
          quota.

    (v) National Cadet Corps (NCC) – Candidates who possess NCC B and NCC
          C certificates issued by the competent authorities are equally eligible and
          shall be considered as per merit secured by them in the final selection. When
          two or more Candidates secure same marks, preference shall be given to the
          Candidate who possess higher certificate.

   (vi) Children of Prisons Department Personnel (CJP) – Children of Prisons
          Department Personnel up to the rank of Jailor in service in Telangana State
          Prisons and Correctional Services Department as well as Children of Prisons
          Department Personnel up to the rank of Jailor, who after serving in the
          Telangana State Prisons and Correctional Services Department have either
          retired or died, will come under this Special Category.

   (vii) Members of Telangana Special Protection Force (MoSPF) – (a) SPF
          Executive – Constables, Head Constables and Assistant Sub Inspectors
          working in Telangana Special Protection Force department who are



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 32 of 57
           approved probationers and have completed three years of service as on the
           date of recruitment Notification, will come under this Special Category.

           (b) SPF Ministerial – Ministerial Staff as mentioned in Category (2) and (3)
           of Class – A and Category (2) and (4) of Class – B of Rule 2 of Telangana
           Ministerial Service Rules, 1998 working in Telangana Special Protection
           Force department, who are approved Probationers and have completed three
           years of service as on the date of recruitment Notification,will come under
           this Special Category.

    (viii) Children of TGSPF Members (CSPF) – Children of Constables and upto
           the rank of Inspectors working in Telangana Special Protection
           Forcedepartment as on date of recruitment notification, who are either in
           service in those ranks or retired or died are eligible under this quota. The
           benefit is to be limited only to the first two children in a family.

    (ix) Children of Members of Fire Services (CFSP) – Children of members of
           Fire Services up to the rank of Assistant District Fire Officer who have
           retired / deceased / incapacitated, as on date of this notification, are eligible
           under this quota.

Note:
(i) The vacancies which remain unfilled in any one of the above Special Categories
shall be filled up by the general Candidates of respective open category and social
categories in the selection.
(ii) The quota under Special Categories, for the Notifications issued by TSLPRB, are
applicable only to the Local Candidates of Telangana State as per the definition of
Local Candidate given in Presidential Order, 2018 and must possess Community
Certificate issued by the Competent Authorities of Telangana State.
(iii) Children of Police Personnel who were compulsorily retired or removed or
dismissed from service as a measure of Punishment shall not be considered under the
quota of ‘Children of Police Personnel’ (CPP).



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 33 of 57
(iv) Children of members of Special Protection Force who were compulsorily retired
or removed or dismissed from service as a measure of punishment shall not be
considered under this Special Category.
(v) Candidates who fall under any of the following categories shall not be considered
under the quota of ‘Police Executive’ (PE) or ‘Police Ministerial’ (PM) or Members
of Special Protection Force (MoSPF)
         a)   Any major punishment in the entire service
         b)   Minor punishments - three or more in the entire service
         c)   Any punishment under operation
         d)   Under suspension or facing an oral enquiry
         e)   Declared as Deserter from service for any reason
         f)   Compulsorily retired or removed or dismissed from service

22. CERTIFICATES / ANNEXURES
a) Candidates who claim any Reservation / Quota under Police Executive (PE), Police
Ministerial (PM), Member of Telangana Special Protection Force (MoSPF), CPP, CDI,
CSPF, CJP and CFSP should satisfy the above conditions and submit the relevant
certificate(s) as per the Annexure(s) appended to the Notification.         Certificates
pertaining to the above Special Categories shall be valid and acceptable if they
are obtained on or after the date of this Notification from the Competent
Authority. Certificates obtained prior to the date of this Notification are not valid
and will not be entertained.

b) Candidates who claim Reservation / Quota under NCC (B / C Certificate) should
submit the necessary certificate issued on or before the date of this Notification.


23. NECESSARY CERTIFICATE FOR EX-SERVICEMEN
Candidates who claim reservation as Ex-Servicemen should satisfy the conditions
mentioned in Sub-Clause (16) of Rule 2 of Telangana State and Subordinate Service
Rules, 1996 and shall have the necessary certificate from the Competent Authority
(PPO – Pension Payment Order, Discharge Book and NOC whichever is applicable).




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 34 of 57
24. SELECTION TO BE PROVISIONAL
Selection of the Candidates shall be provisional and be subject to verification of the
original certificates, antecedents, medical fitness and also outcome of disciplinary
proceedings, if any, pending against the serving employees.


25. INCLUSION IN MERIT LIST DOES NOT CONFER ANY RIGHTS
Mere admission to any test or inclusion of a Candidate’s name in a Merit List shall not
confer on him / her any right for Selection / Appointment to such service, class or
category. The provisional selection of the Candidates to the Posts mentioned in this
Notification, are subject to the several other requirements described below

  a) Verification of Antecedents and Medical Fitness: No person shall be eligible
       for appointment to any service by direct recruitment unless he / she satisfies the
       selection authority as well as the appointing authority that his / her character,
       antecedents and medical fitness are such as to qualify him / her for such service.

  b) Disqualification for Selection / Appointment: Candidates falling under the
       following categories shall be disqualified for Selection / Appointment, as per the
       rules.
       (i)   Suppression of Material facts or providing False / Erroneous Information
             (either in the Application Form or in the Attestation Form)
       (ii) If the Candidate himself or through his / her relatives or friends or any other
             has canvassed or endeavoured to enlist extraneous support whether from
             official or non-official sources for his / her candidature
       (iii) A person (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person
             having a spouse living, or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into
             or contracted a marriage with any other person. Provided that the State
             Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the
             personal law applicable to such person, exempt any person from the
             operation of this rule


 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 35 of 57
       (iv) A person who has been Dismissed from the Services of a State or Central
             Government or from the service of any Central or State Government
             Undertaking or Local body or any other authority

       (v) A person who has been convicted for any offence except in cases where
             imposition of fines under MV Act and imposition of fines in summary trial
             cases.

       (vi) A person who is involved in criminal case(s) that are grave / serious nature
             (or) involving moral turpitude.


26. SUPPRESSION / WITHHOLDING OF FACTS – NOT ADVISABLE
Suppression of Material facts or withholding any factual information in the Application
or Attestation Form (which would be supplied to the Candidates who are declared
provisionally selected) will disqualify the Candidate from being considered for
appointment. In the event of any information being found false or incorrect or
ineligibility being detected at any time even after Appointment, he / she will be
discharged from service forthwith by the Appointing Authority without giving any
notice.


27. FALLOUT VACANCIES
There shall be no waiting list for any of the recruitment processes conducted by
TSLPRB and the list of Candidates provisionally selected as against the notified Posts
shall be final and there shall not be any sliding under any circumstances. The fallout
vacancies, if any, due to cancellation of provisional selection for any reasons including
adverse Antecedents, Lack of Medical fitness, relinquishment by the Candidates and
non-joining of the Induction Training as per designated procedure etc., of the
provisionally selected Candidates shall be deemed to have lapsed for the recruitment
notified.




 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 36 of 57
28. APPOINTMENT ON COMPLETION OF INDUCTION TRAINING
Candidates who are provisionally selected to the SCT Posts of Police Department will
be appointed to the regular Posts by the concerned Appointing Authorities, only on
successful completion of Induction Training.

29. RESIGNATION AND RELIEF FROM EARLIER EMPLOYER
    NECESSARY PREREQUISITE TO JOIN TRAINING
Candidates who are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this
Notification and is an employee of Telangana State Government / any other State
Government / Central Government / any Public Sector Undertaking / Government
Enterprise can join training only after relief from the earlier employer / after resignation
to the earlier service. Such relief / resignation should be obtained well before the
commencement of training and submitted to the concerned Appointing Authorities for
taking necessary action.


30. TIME LIMIT FOR SUBMISSION OF FORMS
Time limit for submission of Attestation Forms (or) other relevant documents (or)
attending Medical Examination (or) joining the Induction Training: i) Candidates who
are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this Notification will be
asked to submit an Attestation Form, produce other relevant documents and attend
Medical Examination on a specified date. Candidates who become eligible to be sent
for training will be asked to join the training on a specified date. If any Candidate fails
to respond and submit the necessary form(s) or document or attend the Medical
Examination or join the training on a specified date, his / her provisional selection will
be cancelled without any further notice to the Candidate. The Candidates who are found
fit in all aspects and become eligible, the list of such Candidates will be sent to the
concerned Heads of Departments for further action.

ii) If any Candidate finally selected as above fails to join the training on the specified
date or seek postponement of training for any reason, further action either to cancel the



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 37 of 57
selection or postponement of training shall be taken by the concerned Heads of the
Departments. For the Candidates whose training is postponed further action to verify
the Antecedents Verification and conducting Medical Examination before sending the
Candidates for next batch of training shall be taken by the concerned Heads of the
Departments.

iii) If any Candidate subsequent to his / her selection is unable to join the original
Induction Training Batch meant for the respective Post of the selection for reasons
attributed to the Candidate; and such situation continues till the conclusion of the usual
date of declaration of probation of the said batch, then such Candidate/s shall undergo
the Physical Efficiency Test prescribed for recruitment purposes as on the date of the
conduct of such test, only those Candidates who cleared the Physical Efficiency Test
shall be allowed to be considered for selection / consequent Induction Training.


31. STIPEND AND ALLOWANCE
During the period of Institutional training (for Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 and 16) (regular
as well as extended) Candidates shall be eligible for stipend as fixed by the Government
from time to time. On successful completion of training, they will be appointed in the
regular Post.


32. PENSION RULES
Employees who are appointed on or after 01-09-2004 are covered by the Contributory
Pension Scheme. Existing Pension Scheme as per Revised Pension Rules, 1980 as
applicable to the State of Telangana, will not be applicable to them.


33. DECISION OF TSLPRB TO BE FINAL
TSLPRB reserves all the rights to themselves with regard to taking of decisions
pertaining to acceptance or rejection of Application/s, procedure of Certificates
Verification, conduct of Examinations (especially as regards modifying and



 Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 38 of 57
rescheduling Examinations), Antecedent Verification, Medical Examination and
Selection as per Rules and decision/s of TSLPRB shall be final in all these aspects.
Candidates are advised to visit the website of TSLPRB regularly to keep themselves
updated until completion of the recruitment process. Candidates are further advised not
to rely on rumours and false propaganda resorted to by persons with vested interests
through media / social media platforms. TSLPRB website information is final,
legitimate and definitive as far as correspondence / communication with the Candidates
is concerned. No individual correspondence by any other means will be entertained
under any circumstances.


                                                                    Sd/-
                                                          (V V SRINIVASA RAO, IPS)
                                                             CHAIRMAN TSLPRB
                                                               HYDERABAD




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 39 of 57
Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026   Page 40 of 57
                                        ANNEXURE – I
                                     GRADATION TABLE

                                        Time Duration
        S        Men Candidates for Post           Women Candidates for Post
                                                                             Marks
       No.       Code Nos. 12, 13, 14 & 16            Code Nos. 12 & 16
                     1600 meters Run                      800 meters Run
         1    4 mints.15 sec and less              3 mints.05 sec and less            100
         2    4 mints.16 sec - 4 mints.35 sec      3 mints.06 sec - 3 mints.20 sec    95
         3    4 mints.36 sec - 4 mints.55 sec      3 mints.21 sec - 3 mints.35 sec    90
         4    4 mints.56 sec - 5 mints.15 sec      3 mints.36 sec - 3 mints.50 sec    85
         5    5 mints.16 sec - 5 mints.35 sec      3 mints.51 sec - 4 mints.05 sec    80
         6    5 mints.36 sec - 5 mints.55 sec      4 mints.06 sec - 4 mints.20 sec    75
         7    5 mints.56 sec - 6 mints.15 sec      4 mints.21 sec - 4 mints.35 sec    70
         8    6 mints.16 sec - 6 mints.35 sec      4 mints.36 sec - 4 mints.50 sec    65
         9    6 mints.36 sec - 6 mints.55 sec      4 mints.51 sec - 5 mints.05 sec    60
        10    6 mints.56 sec - 7 mints.15 sec      5 mints.06 sec - 5 mints.20 sec    50
        11    7 mints.16 sec - 8 mints 30 sec*                   --                   40
        12 8 mints 31 sec - 9 mints 30 sec*                      --                   30
      * Applicable to Ex-Servicemen only




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                              Page 41 of 57
                                        ANNEXURE – II

                   SYLLABUS FOR PRELIMINARY WRITTEN TEST
                               (200 QUESTIONS – 200 MARKS)

    A) ARITHMETIC & TEST OF REASONING / MENTAL ABILITY
    (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (100 QUESTIONS)
    Arithmetic: It will include questions on problems relating to number system, simple
    interest, compound interest, ratio & proportion, average, percentage, profit & loss, time
    & work, work & wages, time & distance, clocks & calendars, partnership, mensuration
    etc

    Test of Reasoning: It will include questions of both verbal & non-verbal type and
    questions on analogies, similarities and differences, spatial visualization, spatial
    orientation, problem solving, analysis, judgment, decision making, visual memory etc

    B) GENERAL STUDIES (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (100 QUESTIONS)
       1. General Science - contemporary developments in science and technology and
          their implications including matters of everyday observation and experience,
          contemporary issues relating to protection of environment as may be expected
          of a well educated person who has not made a special study of any scientific
          discipline
       2. Current events of national and international importance
       3. History of India (including Indian National Movement) – emphasis will be on
          broad and general understanding of the subject in its social, economic, cultural
          and political aspects
       4. Principles of Geography and Geography of India
       5. Indian Polity and Economy – including the Country’s political system, rural
          development, planning and economic reforms in India
       6. Telangana Movement and State Formation - The idea of Telangana (1948-
          1970), Mobilization phase (1971-1990), towards formation of Telangana State
          (1991-2014)
    Note: In case any dispute about any question or answer, the decision taken by the Subject
    Expert Committee shall be final. The Board does not prescribe any particular textbook or
    publication and is not bound by the material appearing in any book or publication.

                                           ******
Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 42 of 57
                                       ANNEXURE – III

                  SYLLABUS FOR FINAL WRITTEN EXAMINATION

    PAPER I: ENGLISH
    Qualifying Paper in English shall be of Matriculation or equivalent standard. Questions
    of the standard of SSC / Matriculation seeking to ascertain the Candidate’s knowledge
    and language skills shall be asked
    PART-A: (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (50 QUESTIONS – 25 MARKS – 45 MINUTES)
    Usage, Vocabulary, Grammar, Comprehension and other language skills in the
    Multiple Choice Questions Format (with 1/4th (25%) negative marks for wrong
    answers)
    PART-B: (DESCRIPTIVE TYPE) (75 MARKS – 2 HOURS 15 MINUTES)
    Descriptive Type Questions covering Writing of Précis, Letters / Reports, Essay,
    Topical Paragraphs and Reading Comprehension

    PAPER II: TELUGU / URDU
    Candidates have to choose one of the languages i.e., either Telugu or Urdu and should
    indicate their choice as and when asked for by the recruiting authority. Option once
    exercised shall be final and a candidate shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
    Qualifying Paper in Telugu or Urdu shall be of Matriculation or equivalent standard.
    Questions of the standard of SSC / Matriculation seeking to ascertain the Candidate’s
    knowledge and language skills shall be asked
    PART-A: (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (50 QUESTIONS – 25 MARKS – 45
    MINUTES)
    Usage, Vocabulary, Grammar, Comprehension and other language skills in the
    Multiple Choice Questions Format (with 1/4th (25%) negative marks for wrong
    answers)
    PART-B: (DESCRIPTIVE TYPE) (75 MARKS – 2 HOURS 15 MINUTES)
    Descriptive Type Questions covering Writing of Précis, Letters / Reports, Essay and
    Reading Comprehension


    PAPER III: ARITHMETIC & TEST OF REASONING / MENTAL ABILITY
    (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (200 QUESTIONS)

Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 43 of 57
    Arithmetic: It shall include questions on problems relating to number system, simple
    interest, compound interest, ratio & proportion, average, percentage, profit & loss, time
    & work, work & wages, time & distance, clocks & calendars, partnership, mensuration
    etc
    Test of Reasoning:It shall include questions of both verbal & non-verbal type and
    include question on analogies, similarities and differences, spatial visualization, spatial
    orientation, problem solving, analysis, judgment, decision making, visual memory etc

    PAPER IV: GENERAL STUDIES (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (200 QUESTIONS)
       1. General Science - contemporary developments in science and technology and
          their implications including matters of everyday observation and experience,
          contemporary issues relating to protection of environment as may be expected
          of a well educated person who has not made a special study of any scientific
          discipline
       2. Current events of national and international importance
       3. History of India – emphasis will be on broad general understanding of the subject
          in its social, economic, cultural and political aspects. Indian National Movement
       4. Principles of Geography and Geography of India
       5. Indian Polity and Economy – including the Country’s political system, rural
          development, planning and economic reforms in India
       6. Personality test (the questions will be from Ethics, Sensitivity to Gender and
          weaker sections, social awareness, Emotional Intelligence)
       7. Telangana Movement and State Formation - The idea of Telangana (1948-
          1970), Mobilization phase (1971-1990), towards formation of Telangana State
          (1991-2014)
    Note: In case any dispute about any question or answer, the decision taken by the
    Subject Expert Committee shall be final. The Board does not prescribe any particular
    textbook or publication and is not bound by the material appearing in any book or
    publication.

                                           ******




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                              Page 44 of 57
                                   ANNEXURE – IV (A)

                           SCHOOL STUDY CERTIFICATE


    Name of the Student:

    Father’s Name:

                                                                        Duration of Study
       Class        Name and Place of School              District
                                                                       with Month & Year

          I

         II

         III

         IV

         V

         VI

        VII

    Name of the School:

    Village / Town:

    Mandal:

    District:

     Office Seal:

     Station:                                        Signature of the Head of
                                                     the Educational Institute
     Date:


    Note: Should be obtained from the Educational Institution(s)


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 45 of 57
                                         ANNEXURE – IV (B)

                                CERTIFICATE OF RESIDENCE
        (To be produced by such Candidates who have not studied in any Government Educational Institution /
      Government Recognized Educational Institution during the whole or part* of the relevant 4/7 years period but
         claim to be local Candidates by virtue of residence for which there is reservation for local Candidates)

    It is hereby certified that

    (a) Sri / Smt / Kum ____________________________son / daughter / wife of
    ______________________________has not studied in any Government
    Educational Institution / Government Recognized Educational Institution during
    the whole or part* of the 4/7 consecutive academic years ending with the academic
    year in which he/she completed his/her7thclass

    b) In the 4/7 years immediately preceding his/ her study of 7th Class, he/she resided in
    the following place/places namely –


        Sl. No.            Village                 Mandal                 District               Period

            1

            2

            3

            4

            5

            6

            7


     Office Seal:

     Station:                                Officer of Revenue Department not below the rank
     Date:                                   of MRO holding independent Charge of a Mandal

    *Strike off whole/part as the case may be

Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                                 Page 46 of 57
                                        ANNEXURE – V

                                  SERVICE CERTIFICATE
                (For age relaxation as a Telangana State Government Employee)


    * This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum ______________________________ S/o,
    W/o, D/o _____________________________ was enrolled on_____________ in the
    Telangana State Police Department in the rank of _________________
    in___________ (unit) and is in service in the rank of _______________________ in
    _________________ (unit).

             * This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum______________________________
    S/o, W/o, D/o ______________________________ was enrolled on_____________
    as _________________ in _________________ (Department) and is in service in the
    rank of _________________ in ________________ (Department).

    2.       He / She rendered his / her service as Government employee for ___ years ____
    months and ____ days from the date of enrolment till 01-07-2026.

    3.       This certificate is issued to Sri/Smt./Kum._____________________________
    to enable him / her to apply for recruitment to the Posts of SCT Sub Inspectors of Police
    (Civil / AR / SAR CPL / TGSP), SI in SPF, Station Fire Officer in Telangana State
    Disaster Response & Fire Services Department and Deputy Jailor (Men) / Deputy Jailor
    (Women) in Prisons & Correctional Services Department vide Notification No. 225 /
    Rect. / Rect.-1 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026.


    Date :                                                     Signature and Designation of
                                                                  Unit Officer with Seal

    *Strike off whichever is not applicable
    Note: The period rendered as Stipendiary Cadet Trainee shall not be counted for purpose of service.




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                     Page 47 of 57
                                      ANNEXURE – VI

                     POLICE EXECUTIVE SERVICE CERTIFICATE
                               (For Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 only)

            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum _______________________________
    S/o, W/o, D/o______________________________________ residing in House No.
    ___________,        __________________Street          __________________       Village,
    ______________ Mandal, ____________ District / Town / City

    2.      He / She was enrolled on         ____________ in the Telangana State Police
    Department in the rank of __________________ in __________________ unit and
    approved probationer and is in service in the rank of __________________ in
    ________________________ unit as on ____________.

    3.      He / She does not fall under any of the following categories
              a)   Any major punishment in the entire service.
              b)   Minor punishments - three or more in the entire service.
              c)   Any punishment under operation
              d)   Under suspension or facing an oral enquiry
              e)   Declared as deserter from service
              f)   Compulsorily retired or removed from service




                                                            Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                      Unit Officer with seal




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 48 of 57
                                     ANNEXURE – VII

                    POLICE MINISTERIAL SERVICE CERTIFICATE
                               (For Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 only)

            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum _______________________________
    S/o, W/o, D/o_____________________________________ residing in House No.
    _____________, ____________________Street ___________________ Village,
    _________________ Mandal, ____________ District / Town / City.

    2.      He / She was enrolled on         ____________ in the Telangana State Police
    Department in the rank of __________________ in __________________ unit and
    approved probationer and is in service in the rank of ___________________ in
    ________________________ unit as on ______________.

    3.      He / She does not fall under any of the following categories
              a)   Any major punishment in the entire service.
              b)   Minor punishments - three or more in the entire service.
              c)   Any punishment under operation
              d)   Under suspension or facing an oral enquiry
              e)   Declared as a deserter from service
              f)   Compulsorily retired or removed from service




                                                            Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                      Unit Officer with Seal




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 49 of 57
                                    ANNEXURE – VIII
    MEMBER OF TELANGANA SPECIAL PROTECTION FORCE CERTIFICATE
                                   (For Post Code No. 16 only)



            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum ________________________________
    S/o, W/o, D/o____________________________________ residing in House No.
    ____________,            _______________Street          _____________         Village,
    ___________________ Mandal, ____________ District / Town / City.

    2.      He / She was enrolled on ____________ in the Telangana State Special
    Protection Force Department in the rank of                   __________________ in
    __________________ unit and approved probationer and is in service in the rank of
    ___________________ in ________________________ unit as on ___________.

    3.      He / She does not fall under any of the following categories
              a)   Any major punishment in the entire service.
              b)   Minor punishments - three or more in the entire service.
              c)   Any punishment under operation
              d)   Under suspension or facing an oral inquiry
              e)   Declared as a deserter from service
              f)   Compulsorily retired, removed, or dismissed from service



                                                           Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                     Unit Officer with Seal




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                          Page 50 of 57
                                      ANNEXURE – IX
               CHILDREN OF POLICE PERSONNEL (CPP) CERTIFICATE
                                (For Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 only)
                (Benefit is to be limited only to the first two children in a family)

            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ________________________________
    residing     in   House    No.      ________________,         ___________________street
    _______________             Village,         _______________________                Mandal,
    _________________ district / town / city              is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt
    ___________________________________ who is / was in the service of the T.S.
    Police Department.

    2.      The candidate’s parent was enrolled on ____________ in the T.S. Police
    Department in the rank of _____________________ in ____________________ unit
    and is in service / retired / died in the rank of            _____________________ in
    __________________________ unit as on __________.

    3.      The candidate’s parent does not fall under any of the following categories
               a) Compulsorily retired
               b) Removed from service
               c) Dismissed from service


                                                             Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                         Unit Officer with Seal



    Note: The benefit of CPP quota is limited only to the first Two Children in a family.
    The Unit Officer has to verify this before issuing the CPP Certificate by obtaining an
    undertaking from the employee / Head of the family in case of a deceased employee




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                              Page 51 of 57
                                      ANNEXURE – X
       CHILDREN OF DECEASED & INCAPACITATED (CDI) CERTIFICATE
                               (For Post Code Nos. 11 to 14 only)


           This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ________________________________
    residing in House.No.                ______________, ____________________Street
    _______________              Village,        ______________________      Mandal,
    ___________________ District / Town / City is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt
    _____________________________ who is / was in the service of the Telangana State
    Police Department. He / She was enrolled on ______________ in the Telangana State
    Police Department in the rank of __________________ in __________________ unit.

    2.     *He / She died on ________________ due to violence while on duty or due to
    violent action of the extremists / criminals / anti-social elements while serving in
    the rank of ___________________ in ____________________ unit.

                                                    (or)

         *He / She was incapacitated and was retired on medical invalidation on
    ________ while serving in the rank of              _________________ in
    ___________________ unit.




                                                           Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                        Unit Officer with seal

    *Strike out which is not applicable




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 52 of 57
                                      ANNEXURE – XI
               CHILDREN OF TGSPFMEMBERS (CSPF) CERTIFICATE
                           (For Post Code No. 16 only)

            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ______________________________
    residing    in     House   No.      __________________,          _________________Street
    _______________              Village,        _______________________                 Mandal,
    __________________ District / Town / City is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt
    ________________________________________ who is / was in the service of the
    Telangana State Special Protection Force Department.

    2.      The Candidate’s parent was enrolled on ____________ in the Telangana State
    Special Protection Force Department, in the rank of _______________________ in
    _______________ unit and is in service / retired / died / incapacitated / compulsorily
    retired on medical invalidation in the rank of _________________________ in
    _________________ unit as on __________.

    3.      The candidate’s parent does not fall under any of the following categories
                     a) Compulsorily retired
                     b) Removed from service
                     c) Dismissed from service



                                                            Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                          Unit Officer with seal


    Note: The benefit of CSPF quota is limited only to the first Two Children in a family. The
    Unit Officer has to verify this before issuing the CSPF Certificate by obtaining an undertaking
    from the employee / Head of the family in case of a deceased employee




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                  Page 53 of 57
                                     ANNEXURE – XII
         CHILDREN OF FIRE SERVICES PERSONNEL (CFSP) CERTIFICATE
                           (For Post Code No. 17 only)


            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ________________________________
    residing    in   House    No.       ________________,    ___________________Street
    _______________             Village,         _______________________         Mandal,
    __________________ District / Town / City is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt
    _________________________________ who was in the service of the Telangana Fire,
    Disaster Response, Emergency and Civil Defence Department.

    2.      The Candidate’s parent was enrolled on ____________ in the Telangana Fire,
    Disaster Response, Emergency and Civil Defence Department in the rank of
    ______________ in ___________________ unit and has retired / deceased /
    incapacitated in the rank of _____________________ in _____________________
    unit as on _____________.



                                                          Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                    Unit Officer with seal




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                         Page 54 of 57
                                    ANNEXURE – XIII
               CHILDREN OF PRISON PERSONNEL (CJP) CERTIFICATE
                         (For Post Code Nos. 18 and 19 only)


            This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ________________________________
    residing    in   House    No.       ________________,     ___________________Street
    _______________             Village,         _______________________           Mandal,
    __________________ District / Town / City is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt
    _________________________________ who is / was in the service of the Telangana
    State Prisons and Correctional Services Department.

    2.      The Candidate’s parent was enrolled on ____________ in the Telangana State
    Prisons and Correctional Services Department in the rank of ______________ in
    ___________________ unit and is in service / retired / died in the rank of
    _____________________ in _____________________ unit as on _____________.




                                                          Signature and Designation of
    Date:                                                      Unit Officer with seal




Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                           Page 55 of 57
                                                ANNEXURE – XIV
                                                            FORM – 1
       (For representing India in an International Competition / Multinational Competitionin one of the recognized Games/ Sports)


    NATIONAL FEDERATION/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ______________

             Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum ________________________________________
    Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri _______________________________________ resident
    of___________________________________________________________                                                     (complete
    address)____________________________________ represented the Country in the
    Game              /            Event               of            ___________________________                                    in
    _________________________________                              Competition             /    Tournament             held         at
    ________________________________ from ___________ to _____________.

             The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
    Tournament was ___________________________________

             The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
    National Federation / National Association of ______________________________.




    Place:                                  Signature: ____________________________________
    Date:                                   Name: ________________________________________
                                           Designation: ___________________________________
                                           Name of the Federation / National Association ________
                                             _____________________________________________
                                           Address ______________________________________
                                             _____________________________________________
                                           Seal _________________________________________



    Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary, National Federation
    /National Association. Additionally, the candidate has to provide evidence of his / her participation / success
    in the given Sport at the State / University / District levels, prior to his / her participation at the multinational
    / International level.


Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                                                Page 56 of 57
                                          ANNEXURE – XV
                                                  FORM – 2
        (For representing a State in India in a National Competition in one of the recognized Games/Sports)


    STATE ASSOCIATION OF ____________________________________________


             Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum _____________________________________
    Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri ____________________________________ resident of
    ____________________________________________________________________
    (complete address) ________________________________________ represented the
    State of ______________________________________________in the Game/Event
    of _______________________ in the National Competition / Tournament held at
    __________________ from _____________ to _____________.

             The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
    Tournament was ___________________________________

             The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
    the State Association of ____________________________________.

    Place:                                      Signature: _____________________________

    Date:                                       Name: _________________________________

                                                 Designation ____________________________

                                                 Name of the State Association_______________

                                                Address _________________________________
                                                 ______________________________________

                                                 Seal __________________________________

    Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary of the State Association.
    Additionally, Candidate has to provide evidence of his / her participation / success in the given Sport at
    University / District levels / School level, prior to his / her participation at National level.



Rc No. 225 / Rect. / Rect-1 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                            Page 57 of 57
