                                  NOTIFICATION
TELANGANA STATE LEVEL POLICE RECRUITMENT BOARD
        DGP OFFICE CO MP LEX , LA KDI -KA-PU L , HYDERA BAD

 Rc. No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026                                      Date: 29th July 2026

 1. VACANCIES
 The Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) invites Applications
 from eligible Candidates through ONLINE mode only in the prescribed proforma,
 which will be made available on the TSLPRB Website (www.tgprb.in), for direct
 recruitment to the following Post. The details of vacancies are as follows –

   Sl. Post
                                       Post                       Vacancies     Pay Scale ₹
   No. Code

                               Telangana Police Department
    1     33    SCT*Assistant Sub Inspector, Fingerprint Bureau      23        33,750-99,310
  *Stipendiary Cadet Trainee

The number of vacancies indicated above is only tentative and is liable to change
without any notice. TSLPRB reserves the right to notify of required modifications with
regard to any aspect of recruitment during the process of recruitment.

 2. CANDIDATES TO CHECK THEIR ELIGIBILITY BEFORE APPLYING
 Exact Dates for submission of Online Application Form will be intimated in due course
 through a Press Release. Candidates who are desirous and eligible REPEAT: eligible
 only may apply through the ONLINE mode only after having satisfied themselves of
 their eligibility for this recruitment. (Please see Para 14: Eligibility Conditions of
 Candidates to ensure their eligibility for the Post and Para 4: General Instructions)



 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                          Page 1 of 35
3. DISTRIBUTION OF VACANCIES
The distribution of vacancies for Post Code No. 33 Zone-wise of Contiguous Zonal
Cadre is as follows –

          Sl.
                CZC                 Name of the Zone        *DR Vacancies
          No.
           1               Zone I – Kaleshwaram                    2
           2               Zone II – Basara                        3
              CZC – I
           3               Zone III – Rajanna                      3
           4               Zone IV – Bhadradri                     3
           5               Zone V – Yadadri                        3
           6 CZC - II      Zone VI – Charminar                     7
           7               Zone VII – Jogulamba                    2
                             Total                                 23
         *Direct Recruitment

Note: The distribution of vacancies among the Zones in each Contiguous Zonal Cadre
is made as per the ratios based on the population of each local Zone in the Contiguous
Zonal Cadre as per the ratio communicated by the Government vide GO Ms No. 46,
General Administration (SPF.II) Department, dated 04-04-2022.


4. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
  a) Candidates are required to go through the Notification meticulously and decide
     themselves as to their eligibility with reference to the laid down criteria for this
     recruitment carefully, before applying and filling in all relevant columns in the
     Online Application Form
  b) Applications received online shall only be considered, and the Telangana State
     Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) will not be responsible for any kind
     of discrepancy
  c) TSLPRB will not be responsible for any inconsistencies or errors in the
     Application submitted online. Candidates are advised to strictly follow the
     instructions in their own interest and to verify the contents before submitting the
     Online Application Form




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 2 of 35
 d) Particulars furnished by the Candidates in the Online Application Form will be
    taken as final. Candidates should therefore be very careful in
    uploading/submitting the Online Application Form
 e) No relevant column of the Application Form should be left blank. Incomplete /
    Incorrect Online Application Form will be summarily rejected. Information, if
    any, furnished by the Candidate subsequently in any form will not be entertained
    by the TSLPRB under any circumstances. Candidates should be careful in filling
    out the Online Application Form before submission. If any lapse is detected at
    any stage of the recruitment process, the candidature will be rejected
 f) Candidates should not furnish any particulars that are false, tampered with, or
    fabricated. They shall not suppress or conceal any material information while
    filling out the Online Application Form. In case, if it is found at a later date that
    any false information has been provided, punitive action will be taken as per the
    law
 g) Candidates are expected to behave in an orderly and disciplined manner while
    appearing for the Tests / Examination / Certificates Verification. Any
    impersonation will be viewed adversely, and such Candidates shall be criminally
    prosecuted, besides being disqualified
 h) All the testimonials issued by the Competent Authorities shall compulsorily be
    produced as and when required. If the Candidate fails to produce the same, his /
    her candidature will be rejected/disqualified without any further correspondence
 i) The claim of the Candidates with regard to the Age, Date of Birth, Educational
    Qualifications, Community, etc., is accepted only provisionally based on the
    information furnished by them in their Online Application Form and Certificates
    produced, subject to verification and satisfaction of the TSLPRB, at an
    appropriate time. Mere acceptance of the Application, admission to any Exam,
    or inclusion of a Candidate in a Qualified Candidates List does not confer any
    right for selection. The candidature is therefore provisional at all stages, and the
    TSLPRB reserves the right to reject his / her candidature at any stage of the
    selection without giving any notice.
 j) Due to various Age relaxations being there for different Posts, Age validation is
    not being done in the Online Application Form. It is the responsibility of the
    Candidates to satisfy themselves about their Age eligibility for the Post(s)
    applied for




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 3 of 35
  k) If Candidates who are Under-Aged or Over-Aged apply for this Recruitment
     Notification, their candidature will be rejected at any time, and TSLPRB is not
     responsible for the same. Fee once paid will not be refunded.
Note: As candidature for the recruitment is processed through Computer / Electronic
devices, based on the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form, the
Candidates are advised to fill in all the relevant particulars carefully.

5. FEE
 a) OC and BC Candidates with local status of Telangana State applying for this Post
    have to pay the fee as designated in the Online Application towards Registration
    of the Application, Processing of Application, Conduct of Tests and Examinations
    (PMT / PET, Written Examination & Certificates Verification), Maintenance of
    Portal etc. However, SC and ST Candidates who are Local to Telangana State
    have to pay the concessional fee as designated in the Online Application. All other
    Candidates will have to pay the fee as designated in the Online Application.

 b) For the Candidates who apply for more than one Notification issued by the
    TSLPRB within a period of 3 months from this date of Notification, the Physical
    Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the Notification(s)
    applied for by a Candidate, will be conducted only once and the same readings /
    scores will be valid for all the Posts for which he / she is applying for among the
    Notifications.

 c) For Candidates applying for more than one Post among –
    1. SCT SI Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 225/Rect./Rect.-1/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    2. SCT ASI (FPB) [Notification No. 279/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    3. SCT PC Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 189/Rect./Rect.-2/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    4. SCT PC (Mechanic) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    5. SCT PC (Driver) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]

    a rebate of Rs.50/- per each additional Post applied for (in excess of 1
    Notification) on account of the saving incurred due to the conduct of Common
    Physical Measurement Test and Physical Efficiency Test shall be given, in the



Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                             Page 4 of 35
    total fee payable, in the case of Local Candidates of Telangana belonging to SC
    & ST categories and a rebate of Rs.100/- per each additional Post applied for (in
    excess of 1 Notification) shall be given to all other Candidates.

 d) The fee being collected from the Candidates will be towards
       (i)   Application Fee, Processing Charges etc
       (ii) PMT / PET (Physical Efficiency) for all the Applicants (Events with RFID
            Bibs / Wrist Bands, Digital Height and other equipment)
       (iii) Written Examination for all the Applicants Qualified in PMT / PET
             (Three 3-hours including one Descriptive Papers Exam)
       (iv) Conducting Biometrics at various stages, Examinations Fee,
       (v) Portal Maintenance, Software Development and Result Processing
           Charges etc.


6. PAYMENT OF FEE
   I Step: Candidate has to register himself / herself on the TSLPRB Website –
             www.tgprb.in by making his / her Mobile Number as his / her User ID and
             then choose the Notifications and Posts that he / she would like to apply
             for. The fee payable will be determined based on the Posts he / she applies
             for. Candidates are advised to provide their mobile number as their Login
             ID, which will be in use throughout the recruitment process and will be in
             their personal custody. It shall be their responsibility to ensure that this
             Mobile number is maintained continuously without any interruption
             throughout the process of recruitment, so that there will not be any loss of
             communication between the Board and the Candidates.

 II Step: This fee can be paid by using Credit Card, Debit Card, or Net Banking made
             available on the TSLPRB Website.

III Step: After making the Payment, it shall be the responsibility of the Candidate to
             visit the website www.tgprb.in to submit the Online Application Form
             which is in 2 parts i.e., Part I and Part II. Part I Application has to be
             submitted initially along with a scanned copy of Passport Size Photo +



Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 5 of 35
             specimen Signature combined as one file / image in jpg/jpeg format. Even
             after making payment of fee and furnishing the details in the application
             form, if the Candidate fails to press submit button and the Application is
             not uploaded, such Applications shall be rejected without giving any
             notice and fee once paid will not be refunded in any case.

 IV Step:     As there is no Preliminary Written Test for the technical posts of SCT
             Assistant Sub Inspector (Finger Print Bureau), Candidates shall visit the
             website www.tgprb.in at the appropriate time prior to PMT / PET and
             upload the Part-II Application along with scanned copies of the required
             certificates / documents. The dates for submission of the Part-II
             Application will be intimated subsequent to the conclusion of Preliminary
             Written Test of SI Civil and / or equivalent Posts.



7. CANDIDATES SHOULD KEEP THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS
   READY TO APPLY

Candidates are requested to keep ready with the following documents before the
schedule for submitting the Online Application Form

     i.   Latest SC Community Certificate with sub-classification of SC Group I, SC
          Group II and SC Group III issued by the Competent Authority of Government
          of Telangana (For SC Candidates only)
    ii.   Latest Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Category Certificate issued by
          the Competent Authorities of Govt. of Telangana issued on or after 1st April
          2026, wherever applicable
   iii.   Latest Non Creamy Layer Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of
          Govt. of Telangana issued on or after 1st April 2026 (For BC Candidates only)
   iv. Local Candidature Certificates i.e., Bonafide from 1st to 7th Class (or)
       Residence Certificate, wherever applicable
    v.    Special Category Certificates like Police Executive, Police Ministerial, and
          Children of Police Personnel etc.




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 6 of 35
8. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-I ONLINE APPLICATION
a) Candidates are requested to check their eligibility carefully and fill-in all the
   relevant columns in the Part I Application Form. Candidates should not register
   more than one Application Form for the present Recruitment Process which
   intends to collect information for all the Posts notified through 4 (four) different
   Notifications with Rc Nos. 189 / Rect. / Rect.2 / 2026, 225 / Rect. / Rect.1 / 2026,
   234 & 279 / Rect. / Rect.-3 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026

b) The following steps are to be followed by the Candidates who intend to submit
   the online Application through Payment Gateway –
        i.   Registration using Mobile Phone as User ID
       ii.   Select the Post(s) for which he / she wants to apply as per the eligibility
     iii.    Note the Fee that has to be paid depending on the Posts chosen
      iv.    Payment of Fee using any mode made available
       v.    Continue on TSLPRB Website with the User ID and fill Part-I of the Application
      vi.    Scan and Upload copy of Passport Photograph and Specimen Signature as one file
     vii.    Submit the Application Form
    viii.    Print Application Form / Forms generated for the Notification(s) applied for

c) Candidates should keep ready a soft copy of his / her Passport Size Photo +
   specimen Signature combined as one file image in jpg format as shown below to
   be scanned and uploaded with the Online Application

                                     Recent
                                 Passport Size
                                 Photograph of
                                 the Candidate

                                   Signature

d) Application will be rejected if the Candidate uploads the Photo without a
   signature. The size of the above image / file should not exceed 100 KB(Minimum
   size is 30 KB). Please note that if the file is not in JPG format, the system will reject
   it, and the candidate may not be able to complete the process of filling up the
   remaining details of the Online Application Form.

e) After payment of the fee, Candidates can use the "Apply Online" in the main menu
   option on the website (www.tgprb.in) to fill his / her Part I Application Form.


Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 7 of 35
f) Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand before
   clicking on "I AGREE".
g) Candidates should endorse the declaration at the end of the Online Application
   signifying the fact that they have read and understood all the Rules and
   Regulations and that they agree to scrupulously abide by them and confirm with
   an OTP (One Time Password) sent to the Candidate’s Registered Mobile.
h) Once the Candidate submits the Application Form, no corrections can be made. Hence
   Candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission.
i) After submission of Online Application Form, the Candidate must download a copy
   of his / her submitted form in PDF for future use.


9. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-II ONLINE APPLICATION
a)    There is no Preliminary Written test for the post of SCT Assistant Sub Inspector,
      Fingerprint Bureau. Candidates have to visit the website www.tgprb.in again for
      submitting the Part-II Application.

b)    Post Preferences / Unit Options once exercised are final and cannot be changed
      thereafter. Candidature will be considered as per the preferences indicated in the
      Application Form as per the eligibility. Candidature will not be considered for
      those Posts / Units which are left blank / unfilled by the Candidates
c)    Giving false information or Suppression or Concealment of facts will result in
      disqualification of the Candidates and renders them liable for Prosecution
d)    Once the Candidate submits the Application, no corrections can be made. Hence
      Candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission
e)    Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand
      before clicking on "I AGREE"
f)    After successful submission of the Online Application, the Candidate will
      receive an Acknowledgment through his / her email ID. (Check SPAM folder of
      your email account if you have not received it in INBOX). The Candidate must
      download a copy of his / her submitted form in PDF for future use.
g)    Candidates are advised to fill their Online Application Form themselves instead
      of handing it over to others to avoid any wrong entries. If their Online
      Application Form is being filled by some other person the Candidate should



Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 8 of 35
      personally be available and ensure that the entries are made correctly and Online
      Application is uploaded successfully.
 h)   Candidature is provisional at all stages. Mere issuance of Hall Ticket to the
      Candidates allowing them to attend the Examination(s) / Test(s) will not imply
      that Candidature has been finally cleared by the TSLPRB. TSLPRB will take
      up the Verification of Eligibility Conditions with reference to their Original
      documents of those Candidates who qualify in Final Written Examination.

10. UPLOADING / SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS
Copies of the following documents must be uploaded in support of the information
given in the Part II Application Form where necessary as well as the documents in
original should be produced at the time of Certificates verification. Failure to upload
the same will lead to rejection of the Online Application Form.

  i. SSC / Matriculation Certificate or its equivalent Certificate in support of Date of
     Birth
 ii. Education Qualification Certificate (See Para No.14(C) of this Notification)

 iii. Latest Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of
      Government of Telangana for claiming Age relaxation/reservation (Candidates
      who belong to SC Community should submit the Community Certificate with
      SC Sub-classification i.e., SC Group - I, SC Group - II, and SC Group - III)

 iv. Latest Non-Creamy Layer Certificate issued on or after 1 st April 2026 by the
     Competent Authority of the Government of Telangana for BC Candidates, if
     they claim reservation in Selection

 v. Latest Certificate of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category issued on
    or after 1st April 2026 by the Competent Authority of the Government of
    Telangana for claiming Age relaxation / EWS reservation as mentioned at Para
    No. 12(C) of this Notification

 vi. Agency Area (Local Scheduled Tribe) Certificate issued as per GO Ms No. 24,
     dated 12-06-2018 of the Government of Telangana for ST & Aboriginal Tribe
     Candidates of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool,
     Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad, and Warangal
     districts, if they claim relaxation in height as per Para No. 15(A) (ii) (c) & (d) of
     this Notification




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 9 of 35
vii. Latest Service Certificate by those Employees / Candidates who are in the
     Telangana State Government Service for claiming Age relaxation (Annexure III)
viii. Necessary Certificate by NCC Instructor for claiming Age relaxation
 ix. PPO (Pension Payment Order) / Discharge Book, if already discharged from
     service of the Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army, for claiming Age
     relaxation / reservation under the Ex-Servicemen category

  x. Serving Armed Forces of Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army of the
     Indian Union retiring within one year from the last date on which Part-I
     Application could be submitted, should submit “No Objection Certificate”
     issued by the concerned Unit Commanding Officer duly indicating his Personal
     Number, Rank, Name, Unit and date of retirement or retirement order, for
     claiming Age relaxation / reservation under Ex-Servicemen category
 xi. Study / Bonafide / Residence Certificates for claiming Local Candidature (See
     Para No. 17 of this Notification)

xii. MSP Certificate(s) for claiming reservation under MSP (See Para No. 12 (D) of
     this Notification)

11. RULES GOVERNING THE POST(S)
Recruitment to the Posts of the Police Department (Post Code No. 33) is being made
under the Telangana Police (Stipendiary Cadet Trainee) Rules, 1999 issued in GO Ms
No. 315 Home (Police-C) Department, dated 13-10-1999 and the amendments issued
thereon from time to time by the Government r/w GO Ms No.68, Home (Legal)
Department, dated 28-07-2026.


12. SPECIAL REPRESENTATION (RESERVATION)

A) Reservation:
The rule of Special Representation (Reservation), i.e., BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D, BC-
E, SC, ST, Ex-Servicemen, Meritorious Sports Person, and Economically Weaker
Section category provided in Rule 22 of Telangana State & Subordinate Service Rules,
1996, shall be applicable to all the Posts. Further, Rule 22-A of the Telangana State
and Subordinate Service Rules 1996 shall also be applicable.



 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026               Page 10 of 35
B) Community:
 i. SC and ST Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the
       definition given in the Presidential Order, 2018, are required to produce latest
       Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of Government of
       Telangana State for claiming Age relaxation / reservation. Candidates who
       belong to SC Category should submit Community Certificate as per Act No. 15
       of 2025, dated 14-04-2025 issued by the Government of Telangana with regard
       to reservations to SCs by way of sub-classification in the State i.e., SC Group -
       I, SC Group - II and SC Group – III.

 ii.   BC Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the definition
       given in the Presidential Order 2018, are required to produce Community
       Certificate (BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D & BC-E) from Competent Authority of
       the Telangana State Government.

iii. Candidates belonging to Backward Classes shall submit the Community
       Certificate to claim Age relaxation and the latest Certificate of Non Creamy
       Layer issued by the Competent Authorities of Telangana State on or after 01-04-
       2026 to claim Reservation. In case of failure to produce the Non Creamy Layer
       Certificate on the day of Certificates Verification, such Candidates will be
       considered under “Open Competition”, if otherwise eligible, and the status
       cannot be changed later.

iv. Relaxation in upper age limit and / or reservation to BC-E Group will be subject
       to the adjudication of the litigation pending before the Honourable Courts
       including final orders in Civil Appeal No(s). 2628-2637 of 2010 in SLP No.
       7388-97 of 2010 dated 25-03-2010 and orders of the Government.

 v. BC, SC and ST Candidates who are not local to Telangana State as per
       Presidential order 2018 are not entitled for any kind of reservation.




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 11 of 35
C) Economically Weaker Section (EWS):

Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the definition given in
the Presidential Order 2018 and belonging to Economically Weaker Section category
(as per GO Ms No. 65, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 19.03.2021 r/w GO Ms No.
244, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 24-08-2021) shall submit the Income and Asset
Certificate issued by any of the following Authorities of Government of Telangana
State to claim Age relaxation and Reservation under this Category.

    i)   District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Sub-
         divisional Magistrate / Mandal Revenue Officer

    ii) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahsildar and
    iii) Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the Candidate and / or his family
         normally resides


D) Meritorious Sports Persons:

Persons who satisfy the definition given in sub rule (20) of Rule 2 of Telangana State
and Subordinate Service Rules, 1996 and who possess the necessary certificate issued
by the Competent Authority clearly certifying that the qualifying participation was
prior to the date of this Notification, will come under this reservation and it will be
applicable to the following categories only:


Category 1 - A sports person who won medals or represented India in an
                 International Competition / Multinational Competition in any one of
                 the recognized Games / Sports which are mentioned in Annexure I of
                 GO Ms No. 74, YATC (Sports) Department dated 9-8-2012 and as
                 subsequently amended from time to time




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 12 of 35
 Category 2 - A sports person who won medals or represented a State in India in a
                  National Competition in any one of the recognized Games / Sports
                  which are mentioned in Annexure I of GO Ms No. 74, YATC (Sports)
                  Department dated 9-8-2012 and as subsequently amended from time
                  to time

Note:-

i) Candidates who come under category (1) above shall be considered initially to fill
the vacancies under MSP reservation. If sufficient Candidates of category (1) are not
available, then the Candidates from category (2) shall be considered for the relevant
Posts.

ii) Where there is more number of Candidates possessing the certificates of same
category available, then marks secured by them during the final selection shall be taken
to decide the inter-se-merit.

iii) In the event of non-availability of eligible sports persons, the vacancies reserved
for them shall be allotted to Open Competition in the same recruitment.



E) WOMEN RESERVATION

33⅓% of the vacancies in each category including EWS are reserved for Women. The
reservation for Women will be a horizontal reservation following the principle of
sufficiency i.e., the reservation of Women Candidates shall be adjusted proportionately
in the respective category to which the Woman Candidate belongs. In the event of non-
availability of eligible and suitable Women Candidates, the vacancies reserved for
them shall not be carried forward for the succeeding recruitment and shall be filled up
by Men Candidates of respective Communal Category.




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 13 of 35
13. INSTRUCTIONS TO BE READ CAREFULLY
The requisite Educational qualifications, age limits, Physical standards, Procedure to
be followed for selection etc., is given below. Candidates must read the instructions
given in this Notification carefully in their own interest.


14. ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS (CANDIDATES TO ENSURE THEIR
    ELIGIBILITY FOR THE EXAMINATION)
Candidates applying for the examination should ensure themselves that they fulfill all
the eligibility conditions for admission to the examination. Their admission at all the
stages of the Examination(s) / Test(s) will be purely provisional and shall be subject to
satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions.

Mere issue of Hall Ticket to the Candidate will not imply that his / her candidature has
been finally cleared by the Board.

TSLPRB will take up verification of eligibility conditions with reference to original
documents only after the Candidate has finally qualified or at an appropriate time.

 A. Eligibility by Gender: Both Men and Women are eligible for this Post.

 B.    i) Age Limit (General): Must have attained the age of 21 years and must not
       have attained the age of 25 years as on 1st July, 2026. However, the Government
       of Telangana vide GO Ms No. 87, General Administration (Services-A)
       Department dated 18-05-2026 have raised the upper age limit prescribed for
       direct recruitment by 5 (five) years for uniformed services including Police, Fire
       Services, Prisons and Special Protection Force Departments. This relaxation is
       in addition to the upper age limit as mentioned above.

       ii) Relaxation in Upper Age Limit: The Upper age limit prescribed above is
       however relaxable in the following cases:




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 14 of 35
         Sl.           Category of Candidates                        Relaxation of Age
         No.
               Telangana        State     Government
               Employees (Employees of TS
               TRANSCO, DISCOMs, TS GENCO,
                                                     Length of regular service
               State Road Transport Corporation and
          1                                          subject to a maximum period
               other Telangana State Corporations,
                                                     of 5 (five) Years
               Municipalities, Local Bodies, Public
               Sector Undertakings etc., are not
               entitled for age relaxation)
                                                    3 (three) Years in addition to
               Ex-Servicemen (Served in Army /
          2                                         the length of Service rendered
               Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army)
                                                    in the Armed Forces
               NCC Instructor (rendered a minimum 3 (three) Years in addition to
          3    service of 6 months as a whole time the length of Service rendered
               Cadet Corps Instructor in NCC)      in the NCC
          4    SCs, STs, BCs and EWS category                  5 (five) Years
      Save as provided above, the age limits prescribed can in no case be relaxed.
      Note:

      1. Persons serving in the Armed Forces of the Indian Union, who on Retirement
      from Service, would come under the category of Ex-Servicemen, may be
      permitted to apply for re-employment one year before the completion of the
      specified terms of engagement and avail themselves of all the concessions
      available to Ex-Servicemen

      2. Name and date of birth accepted by the TSLPRB is that entered in the
      Secondary School Certificate or Matriculation or an equivalent examination
      certificate. No other document relating to Age like horoscopes, Affidavits, birth
      extracts from Municipal Corporation, Service Records and the like will be
      accepted

 C. Educational Qualification: Must possess a Degree of B.E. / B.Tech in
      Information      Technology,       Computer         Science   OR   Computer    Science



Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                         Page 15 of 35
      specialization in Artificial Intelligence / Artificial Intelligence and Machine
      Learning / Data Science / Networks / Cyber Security / Internet of Things OR
      Degree of BSc in Computer Science OR Computer Application awarded by any
      university in India, established or incorporated by or under a Central Act,
      Provincial Act of State or of any institution recognized by the University Grants
      Commission or any other equivalent qualification as on date of Notification i.e.,
      29th July 2026.

      Provided that, Degree or Provisional Certificate or Consolidated Marks Memo
      of the whole duration of study which proves the qualification, shall be made
      available by the Candidate at the time of certificate verification to prove his / her
      qualification issued by the University on or before 29th July 2026. If any
      Candidate fails to produce the required pass certificate as above on the
      designated day, then it shall be deemed that he / she does not possess the required
      qualification and such candidature shall not be taken forward. Any certificates
      produced after the last date of Certificate Verification shall not be taken into
      consideration.

      Note:-Candidates who possess a higher qualification than the prescribed one
      will also be considered on par with the Candidates who possess the prescribed
      qualification.


 D. Medical Standards:
      i) Eye Sight: Visual Standards required for the above selection shall be as
         follows –
                                 Right Eye Left Eye
             Distant Vision        6/6          6/6
             Near Vision           0/5          0/5
                                 (Snellen) (Snellen)
      ii) Each eye must have a full field of vision




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 16 of 35
      iii) Colour blindness, squint, or any morbid condition of the eye or lids of either
           eye shall be deemed to be a disqualification
      iv) Candidate should possess sound health and be free from any bodily defect or
          infirmity which will render him / her unfit for the Posts notified
       v) Candidates who have the following ailments or defects will not be
          considered for recruitment to any post specified in this rule
            i) Physically handicapped
            ii) Knock-knees, pigeon chest, flat foot, Varicose veins, Hammer toes,
                fractured limbs, decayed teeth, stammering, hard of hearing, and
                abnormal psychological behavior
      vi) Candidates provisionally selected shall be referred to the District
          Headquarters Hospital for Medical Examination / Fitness. For any expert
          opinion, Candidates shall be referred to Osmania / Gandhi Hospitals,
          Hyderabad, on the basis of the recommendations made by the District
          Headquarters Hospitals. Candidates who are declared unfit due to eye-related
          issues shall be referred to the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Hyderabad, based
          on the recommendation made by the District Headquarters Hospital. The
          opinion given by the Sarojini Devi Hospital shall be final. The Candidates
          can be referred / examined only once on such recommendations. There shall
          not be any further re-examination once the Candidate is already examined as
          per the referral of the District Headquarters Hospital for expert opinion.
          Where there is no referral for expert opinion from the District Headquarters
          Hospital, such Candidates shall not be referred any further.

          Note:- In order to avert getting disappointed at a later stage, Candidates are
          advised to have themselves examined by a Civil Surgeon before applying for
          the examination to ensure that they meet the prescribed Physical and
          Medical Standards.


15. SELECTION PROCEDURE / SCHEME
The Selection Procedure / Scheme of the Examination will be as follows –

Intimation Letter: Candidates will be informed of the dates for downloading the
Intimation Letter through the website (www.tgprb.in) for appearing in the PMT / PET




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 17 of 35
with details of Venue, Date, and Time. Candidates should bring the Intimation Letter
while attending the PMT / PET.

A) Sequence of Physical Efficiency Test and Physical Measurements:-Candidates
who submitted the Part II Application Form shall be required to undergo the following
tests and qualify as specified below:

i) 1600 meters / 800 meters Run event:- Men Candidates must qualify in the 1600
meters Run within a maximum time of 7 Minutes 15 Seconds. For Ex-Servicemen, the
maximum time is 9 minutes and 30 Seconds. Women Candidates must qualify in the
800-meter run within a maximum time of 5 Minutes 20 Seconds.

While conducting the 1600-meter and 800-meter run events, where RFID-based
readings are taken, the competitors perform totally independently of each other.
Consequently, starting time, finishing time, and duration are automatically recorded
individually for each competitor. Nevertheless, wherever required, only the curved-
start (not staggered-start) method, wherein the competitors can change lanes
immediately after the start, will be adopted. All digitally recorded readings shall be
rounded mathematically to 2 decimal places to determine qualification /
disqualification and also gradation.

ii) Physical Measurements: Candidates who qualify in the above Run event should
meet the following requirements:

        a) For Men Candidates –
           Height: Must not be less than 162cms

   b)      For Women Candidates –
           Height: Must not be less than 152.5cms

Provided that, Candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes and Aboriginal Tribes in the
Agency areas of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool,
Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad, and Warangal districts
should meet the following requirements:



Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                 Page 18 of 35
       c) For Men Candidates –
          Height: Must not be less than 160 cms
       d) For Women Candidates –
          Height: Must not be less than 150 cms

iii. Long Jump / Shot-put events: Candidates declared qualified in the Physical
Measurements as above shall be required to undergo the remaining PET events and
must qualify as detailed below:

                                                          Qualifying Distance
 Sl.
                  Item                       Men Candidates
 No.                                                                     Women Candidates
                                       General        Ex. Servicemen
  1    Long Jump                       4 Meters           3.50 Meters           2.50 Meters
       Shot-put (7.26 Kgs for
  2                                    6 Meters            6 Meters              4 Meters
       Men / 4 Kgs for Women)
Long jump and shot put are qualifying in nature.


Note: Physical Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the
Notification(s) issued by TSLPRB (within a period of 3 months) applied for by a
Candidate, will be conducted only once, and the same readings / scores will be valid
for all the Posts for which he / she is applying among the Notifications.


Intimation Letter: Candidates who qualify in the Physical Measurement Test /
Physical Efficiency Test will be issued Hall Tickets for appearing in the Written
Examination with details of Venue, Date, and Time. Candidates should bring the Hall
Ticket when they come to attend the Written Examination.

B) Written Examination: Candidates who qualify in the above Physical Efficiency
Test shall be required to appear for the Written Examination in 3 (three) papers (each
of three hours duration) as given below. The syllabus for this exam is given in
Annexure I.




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 19 of 35
   Paper                                 Subject                         Max. Marks
                         Part A-Objective type – MCQs      25 Marks
  Paper I     English                                                         100
                         Part B-Descriptive type           75 Marks
             Arithmetic and Test of Reasoning / Mental Ability
  Paper II                                                                    100
             (Objective in nature) (200 Questions)
 Paper III Technical Paper (Objective in nature) (200 Questions)              200

Note:

1) The minimum marks to be secured by the Candidates in order to qualify in the
Written Examination in each paper are 40% for OCs, including EWS, 35% for BCs,
and 30% for SCs / STs / Ex. Servicemen.

2) Paper I is qualifying in nature and the marks secured in this Paper shall not be taken
into account for final selection. Those Candidates who do not secure the minimum
qualifying marks in this Paper shall not be considered further in the selection process,
irrespective of their performance in Papers II and III.

3) Part A of Paper I referred to above shall be objective in nature, and Candidates
have to answer the questions using a Blue / Black Ball Point pen only, and Part B of
Paper I is descriptive in nature.

4) For each question in Part A of Paper I, the Candidate shall be awarded full marks
assigned to that question if he / she darkened only one bubble that corresponds to the
correct answer. In case the Candidate has not darkened any bubble, the Candidate
shall be awarded zero marks for that question. In all other cases, 25% of the full marks
shall be awarded as a negative mark for that question.

5) In Paper II, the Candidates can choose to have either Telugu or Urdu and should
indicate their choice as and when asked for. Option once exercised shall be final, and
Candidate shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 20 of 35
6) Questions in Paper II shall be objective in nature. Candidates have to answer the
questions on an OMR answer sheet using a Blue / black ball-point pen only.

7) Appearance in all the Tests and Written Examinations, as per rules, is compulsory.
Absence in any of the above Tests / Examination shall automatically render a
Candidate disqualified.

8) Mere securing of minimum qualifying marks does not vest any right in a Candidate
to be considered for selection.

9) Questions in Paper II shall be set in English-Telugu & English-Urdu languages,
and in case of terminology of Science, technology / Management, transliteration will
be employed at the expert's discretion. In case of any ambiguity or spelling mistake in
Translation / Transliteration in any Question in the Telugu or Urdu language, the
English version shall be considered as final and the correct version.

10) While evaluating Objective-type Papers, the marks for the deleted questions, if any,
will be awarded to each Candidate proportionately, and the marks will be considered
up to 3 (three) decimal places to determine the merit of the Candidate. Thus, with
reference to deleted questions, each Candidate will be compensated in proportion to
his / her percentage of marks obtained in the rest of the questions (which remain
undeleted)

11) Candidates who secured 40% and above in each Paper, i.e., Paper-II and Paper-
III only, are eligible to be considered for selection for Posts under OC / EWS
irrespective of social categories.

C) No Postponement / Reconsideration of Tests, including PMT / PET, during
recruitment process:- Candidates should be fit in all aspects at all stages of
recruitment, including PMT / PET. No Postponement / reconsideration of stages
under any circumstances shall be allowed. A Candidate has to undergo the tests,




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 21 of 35
including PMT / PET, on the designated day in the sequential order as prescribed
above.

D) Final Selection:

The final selection of the Candidates will be made strictly on relative merit, as obtained
by them based on their aggregate score of Paper II and Paper III of the Final Written
Examination. 95% of the vacancies of SCT ASI (FPB) in the Contiguous Zones as
organized under “The Telangana Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres
and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” r/w GO Ms No. 169, GA (SPF.II)
Department, dated 04-08-2021 shall be filled up from the Local Candidates of the
respective Zones as per GO Ms No. 46, GA (SPF.II) Department, dated 04-04-2022.

E) Merit among Candidates who secure the same Marks: When 2 (two) or more
Candidates in a particular category obtain equal marks, preference will be given to the
Candidate who was born earlier.


16. CERTIFICATES VERIFICATION

Candidates who qualify in the Written Examination will be called for Certificates
Verification, and they have to produce Original Documents (along with two sets of
photocopies) and other particulars on the day of verification itself, for verification or as
and when required and called for. If Candidate(s) fail to produce the Certificates at the
time of verification or if the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form do not
tally with the Original Documents produced by the Candidate(s), the candidature will
be rejected / disqualified without any further correspondence.


17. RESERVATION TO LOCAL CANDIDATES
Reservation to Local Candidates is applicable as per the provisions of “The Telangana
Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct
Recruitment) Order, 2018” issued in GO Ms No. 124 General Administrative (SPF-



 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 22 of 35
MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018.              Candidates claiming Reservation as local
Candidates should enclose the required Study Certificate(s) for the duration of
education from I class to VII class issued by the Government School Authorities /
Government Recognized School authorities. Within the 7 (seven) years, in case the
Candidate did not study in any Government or Government-recognized school, then,
the Residence Certificate (for such period) issued by the Tahsildar of the concerned
Mandal should be enclosed for determining local Status.

Note:-

a) Single certificate, whether of study or residence, would suffice for enabling the
Candidate to apply as a “Local Candidate”


b) Residence certificate will not be accepted if a Candidate has studied in any
Educational Institution up to the 7th class or equivalent examination. Such candidates
have to produce study certificates only, invariably. The Candidates, who acquired
degree from Open Universities without studying 7th class or equivalent in Educational
Institutions, have to submit Residence Certificate only. Educational Institution means
an institution recognized by the Government / University / Competent authority.

Police Zones within each of the Contiguous Zones for this Post are shown in the
following table.

                   Contiguous Zones                          Zones
                                                 Zone – I - Kaleshwaram
                                                 Zone – II - Basara
            CONTIGUOUS ZONE - I
                                                 Zone – III - Rajanna
                                                 Zone – IV - Bhadradri
                                                 Zone – V - Yadadri
            CONTIGUOUS ZONE - II                 Zone – VI - Charminar
                                                 Zone – VII - Jogulamba




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 23 of 35
18. LOCAL RESERVATION
Local Reservation shall be followed in terms of Para (7) of Telangana Public
Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct recruitment),
Order 2018 issued in GO Ms No. 124, GA (SPF.MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018
r/w GO Ms No. 128, GA (SPF-I) Department dated 30-06-2021 and GO Ms No. 46,
GA (SPF-II) Department, dated 04-04-2022 and subsequent Orders issued by the
Government from time to time.


19. NECESSARY CERTIFICATE FOR EX-SERVICEMEN
Candidates who claim reservation as Ex-Servicemen should satisfy the conditions
mentioned in Sub-Clause (16) of Rule 2 of Telangana State and Subordinate Service
Rules, 1996, and shall have the necessary certificate from the Competent Authority
(PPO – Pension Payment Order, Discharge Book, and NOC, whichever is applicable).


20. SELECTION TO BE PROVISIONAL

Selection of the Candidates shall be provisional and subject to verification of the
original certificates, antecedents, medical fitness, and also the outcome of disciplinary
proceedings, if any, pending against the serving employees.


21. INCLUSION IN THE MERIT LIST DOES NOT CONFER ANY RIGHTS
Mere admission to any test or inclusion of a Candidate’s name in a Merit List shall not
confer on him / her any right for Selection / Appointment to such service, class or
category. The provisional selection of the Candidates to the Posts mentioned in this
Notification, are subject to the several other requirements described below.

  a) Verification of Antecedents and Medical Fitness: No person shall be eligible
       for appointment to any service by direct recruitment unless he / she satisfies the
       selection authority as well as the appointing authority that his / her character,
       antecedents, and medical fitness are such as to qualify him / her for such service.




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 24 of 35
  b) Disqualification for Selection / Appointment: Candidates falling under the
      following categories shall be disqualified for Selection / Appointment, as per the
      rules.
      (i)   Suppression of Material facts or providing False / Erroneous Information
            (either in the Application Form or in the Attestation Form)
      (ii) If the Candidate himself or through his / her relatives or friends or any other
            has canvassed or endeavored to enlist extraneous support, whether from
            official or non-official sources, for his / her candidature
      (iii) A person (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person
            having a spouse living, or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into
            or contracted a marriage with any other person. Provided that the State
            Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the
            personal law applicable to such person, exempt any person from the
            operation of this rule
      (iv) A person who has been dismissed from the Services of a State or Central
            Government or from the service of any Central or State Government
            Undertaking or Local body or any other authority
      (v) A person who has been convicted for any offense except in cases where
            imposition of fines under the MV Act and imposition of fines in summary
            trial cases.
      (vi) A person who is involved in criminal case(s) that are of a grave / serious
            nature (or) involving moral turpitude.

22. SUPPRESSION / WITHHOLDING OF FACTS – NOT ADVISABLE

Suppression of Material facts or withholding any factual information in the Application
or Attestation Form (which would be supplied to the Candidates who are declared
provisionally selected) will disqualify the Candidate from being considered for




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 25 of 35
appointment. In the event of any information being found false or incorrect or
ineligibility being detected at any time even after Appointment, he / she will be
discharged from service forthwith by the Appointing Authority without giving any
notice.

23. FALLOUT VACANCIES

There shall be no waiting list for any of the recruitment processes conducted by
TSLPRB, and the list of Candidates provisionally selected against the notified Posts
shall be final, and there shall not be any sliding under any circumstances. The fallout
vacancies, if any, due to cancellation of provisional selection for any reasons, including
adverse Antecedents, Lack of Medical fitness, relinquishment by the candidates, and
non-joining of the Induction Training as per the designated procedure, etc., of the
provisionally selected Candidates shall be deemed to lapse for the recruitment notified.


24. APPOINTMENT ON COMPLETION OF INDUCTION TRAINING

Candidates who are provisionally selected to the SCT Posts of the Police Department
will be appointed to the regular Posts by the concerned Appointing Authorities, only
on successful completion of Induction Training.


25. RESIGNATION AND RELIEF FROM EARLIER EMPLOYER /
    NECESSARY PREREQUISITE TO JOIN TRAINING

Candidates who are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this
Notification and are employees of Telangana State Government / any other State
Government / Central Government / any Public Sector Undertaking / Government
Enterprise can join training only after relief from the earlier employer / after resignation
from the earlier service. Such relief / resignation should be obtained well before the
commencement of training and submitted to the concerned Appointing Authorities for
necessary action.



 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 26 of 35
26. TIME LIMIT FOR SUBMISSION OF FORMS

Time limit for submission of Attestation Forms (or) other relevant documents (or)
attending Medical Examination (or) joining the Induction Training: i) Candidates who
are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this Notification will be
asked to submit an Attestation Form, produce other relevant documents, and attend
Medical Examination on a specified date. List of the Candidates who become eligible
will be sent to the concerned Head of the Department for taking further necessary
action. If any Candidate fails to respond and submit the necessary form(s) or document
or attend the Medical Examination or join the training on a specified date, his / her
provisional selection will be cancelled without any further notice to the Candidate. The
Candidates who are found fit in all aspects and become eligible to be sent to the
concerned Heads of Departments for further action.

ii) If any Candidate finally selected as above fails to join the training on the specified
date or seeks postponement of training for any reason, further action, either to cancel
the selection or postponement of training, shall be taken by the concerned Head of the
Department. For the Candidates whose training is postponed, further action to verify
the Antecedents Verification and conduct Medical Examination before sending the
Candidates for the next batch of training shall be taken by the concerned Head of the
Department.

iii) If any Candidate subsequent to his / her selection is unable to join the original
Induction Training Batch meant for the respective Post of the selection for reasons
attributed to the Candidate; and such situation continues till the conclusion of the usual
date of declaration of probation of the said batch, then such Candidate/s shall undergo
the Physical Efficiency Test prescribed for recruitment purposes as on the date of the
conduct of such test, only those Candidates who cleared the Physical Efficiency Test
shall be allowed to be considered for selection / consequent Induction Training.




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 27 of 35
27. STIPEND AND ALLOWANCE
During the period of Institutional training (regular as well as extended) Candidates
shall be eligible for stipend as fixed by the Government from time to time. On
successful completion of training, they will be appointed to the regular Post.


28. PENSION RULES
Employees who are appointed on or after 01-09-2004 are covered by the Contributory
Pension Scheme. Existing Pension Scheme as per Revised Pension Rules, 1980, as
applicable to the State of Telangana, will not be applicable to them.


29. DECISION OF TSLPRB TO BE FINAL
TSLPRB reserves all the rights to itself with regard to taking decisions pertaining to
acceptance or rejection of Application/s, procedure of Certificates Verification,
conduct of Examinations (especially as regards modifying and rescheduling
Examinations), Antecedent Verification, Medical Examination, and Selection as per
Rules, and decision/s of TSLPRB shall be final in all these aspects. Candidates are
advised to visit the website of TSLPRB regularly to keep themselves updated until the
completion of the recruitment process. Candidates are further advised not to rely on
rumors and false propaganda resorted to by persons with vested interests through media
/ social media platforms. TSLPRB website information is final, legitimate, and
definitive as far as correspondence / communication with the Candidates is concerned.
No individual correspondence by any other means will be entertained under any
circumstances.
                                                                    Sd/-
                                                          (V V SRINIVASA RAO, IPS)
                                                              CHAIRMAN TSLPRB
                                                                 HYDERABAD




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 28 of 35
                                      ANNEXURE - I
           SYLLABUS FOR FINAL WRITTEN EXAMINATION

PAPER I: ENGLISH
Qualifying Paper in English shall be of Matriculation or equivalent standard. Questions
of the standard of SSC / Matriculation, seeking to ascertain the Candidate’s knowledge
and language skills, shall be asked.
PART-A: (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (50 QUESTIONS – 25 MARKS – 45 MINUTES)
Usage, Vocabulary, Grammar, Comprehension, and other language skills in the
Multiple Choice Questions Format (with 1/4th (25%) negative marks for wrong
answers)
PART-B: (DESCRIPTIVE TYPE) (75 MARKS – 2 HOURS 15 MINUTES)
Descriptive Type Questions covering Writing of Précis, Letters / Reports, Essay,
Topical Paragraphs, and Reading Comprehension

PAPER II: ARITHMETIC & TEST OF REASONING / MENTAL ABILITY
(OBJECTIVE TYPE) (200 QUESTIONS)
Arithmetic: It shall include questions on problems relating to the number system,
simple interest, compound interest, ratio & proportion, average, percentage, profit &
loss, time & work, work & wages, time & distance, clocks & calendars, partnership,
mensuration, etc
Test of Reasoning: It shall include questions of both verbal & non-verbal type and
include questions on analogies, similarities and differences, spatial visualization,
spatial orientation, problem solving, analysis, judgment, decision making, visual
memory, etc

PAPER III: TECHNICAL PAPER (OBJECTIVE TYPE) (200 QUESTIONS)

1. Computer Hardware:

   i) Computer Architecture: Fundamentals of Computers, PC Assembling,
      Installation, Troubleshooting, Viruses.

   ii) The Memory System: Memory Hierarchy, ROM, RAM, DRAM, Storage
       Devices, Secondary memory, and RAID and its Levels; Concepts of high-speed
       memories, CPU, NIC cards.




Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 29 of 35
   iii) Computer Peripherals: Keyboard, Mouse, Video Cards, Monitors, Liquid
        Crystal Displays (LCD), Digital Camera, Sound Cards, Printers, Modems,
        Scanners, Power Supply, etc.

2. Computer Software:

  i) Operating Systems: Computer fundamentals, DOS Commands, Windows
      accessories & utilities.
  ii) Windows: Windows Generations – Installation and maintenance, File
      management, Creating user accounts and passwords, Administrative tools,
      Control panels, Services, Settings, Multimedia, printers
  iii) Database Management, basic concepts, RDBMS, Data types, tables, views,
       transactions, concurrency, reports

3. Application Software: (MS-Office)

    i) MS- Word: Basics, file operations, formatting & editing text, tables, inserting
       objects and page design, macros and mail merge, creating documents and
       printing.
  ii) MS-Excel: Cell formatting, graphic objects and charts, database, pivot tables,
      data validation. Maths functions and calculations, templates, file protection, and
      printing

  iii) MS PowerPoint: Essential elements of presentation, creating and adding slides,
       formatting, designing, laying out, slide show presentations, and printing.

  iv) MS Access: Database, Tables, Data sheets, Queries, Forms, Data Entry, and
      Editing. Reports.

4. Networking & Security Management:

       The Topologies – Types of Networks: Local Area Networks (LAN),
       Metropolitan Area Networks (MAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN) – Firewall
       Policy, Packet filters, Application Gateway, Advanced authentication
       mechanism. Antivirus concepts, Encryption, VPN, Internet, Intranet

Note: In case of any dispute about any question or answer, the decision taken by the Subject
Expert Committee shall be final. The Board does not prescribe any particular textbook or
publication and is not bound by the material appearing in any book or publication.

                                          ******

 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 30 of 35
                                 ANNEXURE – II (A)
                       SCHOOL STUDY CERTIFICATE


Name of the Student:

Father’s Name:

                                                                       Duration of Study
   Class        Name and Place of School                   District
                                                                      with Month & Year

      I

     II

     III

    IV

     V

    VI

    VII
Note: Should be obtained from the Educational Institution(s)

Name of the School:

Village / Town:

Mandal:

District:

 Office Seal:

 Station:                                           Signature of the Head of
 Date:                                              The Educational Institute




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                        Page 31 of 35
                                      ANNEXURE – II (B)
                           CERTIFICATE OF RESIDENCE
(To be produced by such Candidates who have not studied in any Government Educational Institution / Government
Recognized Educational Institution during the whole or part* of the relevant 4/7 years period but claim to be local
Candidates by virtue of residence for which there is a reservation for local Candidates)

It is hereby certified that.
(a) Sri / Smt / Kum ____________________________ son / daughter / wife of
______________________________has                         not     studied        in    any      Government
Educational Institution / Government Recognized Educational Institution during
the whole or part* of the 4/7 consecutive academic years ending with the academic
year in which he/she completed his/her7th class

b) In the 4/7 years immediately preceding his/ her study of 7th Class, he/she resided in
the following place/places, namely –

     Sl. No.            Village                  Mandal                 District               Period

        1

        2

        3

        4

        5

        6

        7


 Office Seal:

 Station:                               Officer of the Revenue Department not below the rank
 Date:                                  of MRO holding an independent Charge of a Mandal

*Strike off whole/part as the case may be


 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                        Page 32 of 35
                                    ANNEXURE – III
                               SERVICE CERTIFICATE
              (For age relaxation as a Telangana State Government Employee)


         * This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum ______________________________
S/o, W/o, D/o _____________________________ was enrolled on_____________ in
the Telangana State Police Department in the rank of _________________
in___________ (unit) and is in service in the rank of _______________________ in
_________________ (unit).

         * This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum______________________________
S/o, W/o, D/o ______________________________ was enrolled on_____________
as _________________ in _________________ (Dept.) and is in service in the rank of
_________________ in ________________ (Dept.).

2.       He / She rendered his / her service as Government employee for ___ years ____

months and ____ days from the date of enrolment till 01-07-2026.


3.       This certificate is issued to Sri/Smt./Kum._____________________________
to enable him / her to apply for recruitment to the Post of SCT Assistant Sub Inspectors
of Police (FPB) vide Notification No. 279 / Rect. / Rect.-3 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026.



Date :                                                     Signature and Designation of
                                                              Unit Officer with Seal

*Strike off whichever is not applicable

Note: The period rendered as Stipendiary Cadet Trainee shall not be counted for the
purpose of service.




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                       Page 33 of 35
                                       ANNEXURE – IV
                                                 FORM - 1
(For representing India in an International Competition / Multinational Competition
                      in one of the recognized Games/ Sports)

NATIONAL FEDERATION/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ______________

         Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum ________________________________________
Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri _______________________________________ resident
of___________________________________________________________                                    (complete
address)____________________________________ represented the Country in the
Game            /          Event            of          ___________________________                        in
_________________________________                     Competition         /    Tournament         held     at
________________________________ from ___________ to _____________


         The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
Tournament was ___________________________________


         The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
National Federation / National Association of ______________________________

Place:                             Signature: ____________________________________
Date:                              Name: ________________________________________
                                   Designation: ___________________________________
                                   Name of the Federation / National Association ________
                                   _____________________________________________
                                   Address ______________________________________
                                   _____________________________________________
                                   Seal _________________________________________

Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary, National Federation
/National Association. Additionally, Candidate has to provide evidence of his / her participation / success in
the given Sport at State / University / District levels, prior to his / her participation at Multinational /
International level.



 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                    Page 34 of 35
                                       ANNEXURE – V
                                              FORM - 2
(For representing a State in India in a National Competition in one of the recognized
                                   Games / Sports)
STATE ASSOCIATION OF _____________________________________________

         Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum _____________________________________
Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri ____________________________________ resident of
____________________________________________________________________
(complete address) ________________________________________ represented the
State of ______________________________________________in the Game/Event
of _______________________ in the National Competition / Tournament held at
__________________ from _____________ to _____________

         The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
Tournament was ___________________________________

         The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
the State Association of ____________________________________

Place:                                      Signature: _____________________________

Date:                                       Name: _________________________________

                                             Designation _____________________________

                                             Name of the State Association_______________

                                            Address _________________________________
                                             _______________________________________

                                             Seal ___________________________________

Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary of the State Association.
Additionally, Candidate has to provide evidence of his / her participation / success in the given Sport at
University / District levels / School level, prior to his / her participation at National level.




 Rc No. 279 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                  Page 35 of 35
