                                   NOTIFICATION
TELANGANA STATE LEVEL POLICE RECRUITMENT BOARD
      DGP OFFICE CO MP LEX , LA KDI -KA-PU L , HYDERA BAD

 Rc. No. 234 / Rect. / Rect.3 / 2026                                  Date: 29th July 2026


 1. VACANCIES
 The Telangana State Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) invites Applications
 from eligible Candidates through ONLINE mode only in the prescribed proforma,
 which will be made available on the TSLPRB Website (www.tgprb.in), for direct
 recruitment to the following Posts. The details of vacancies are as follows –

    Sl.   Post                                                  DR
                                       Post                                 Pay Scale ₹
    No.   Code                                                Vacancies
                                 Telangana Police Department
     1      35    S C T* Police Constable (Mechanics) (Men)      7
                                                                          24,280 - 72,850
     2      36    S C T* Police Constable (Driver) (Men)         20
                             Total                               27       Vacancies
   *Stipendiary Cadet Trainee

The number of vacancies indicated above is only tentative and is liable to change
without any notice. TSLPRB reserves the right to notify of required modifications with
regard to any aspect of recruitment during the process of recruitment.


 2. CANDIDATES TO CHECK THEIR ELIGIBILITY BEFORE APPLYING
 Exact Dates for submission of Online Application Form will be intimated in due course
 through a Press Release. Candidates who are desirous and eligible REPEAT: eligible
 only may apply through the ONLINE mode only after having satisfied themselves of
 their eligibility for this recruitment (Please see Para 14: Eligibility Conditions of
 Candidates to ensure their eligibility for the Post and Para 3: General Instructions).


  Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 1 of 40
3. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
 a) Candidates are required to go through the Notification meticulously and decide
    themselves as to their eligibility with reference to the laid down criteria for this
    recruitment carefully, before applying and filling in all relevant columns in the
    Online Application Form
 b) Applications received online shall only be considered, and the Telangana State
    Level Police Recruitment Board (TSLPRB) will not be responsible for any kind
    of discrepancy
 c) TSLPRB will not be responsible for any inconsistencies or errors in the
    Application submitted online. Candidates are advised to strictly follow the
    instructions in their own interest and to verify the contents before submitting the
    Online Application Form
 d) Particulars furnished by the Candidates in the Online Application Form will be
    taken as final. Candidates should therefore be very careful in
    uploading/submitting the Online Application Form
 e) No relevant column of the Application Form should be left blank. Incomplete /
    Incorrect Online Application Form will be summarily rejected. Information, if
    any, furnished by the Candidate subsequently in any form will not be entertained
    by the TSLPRB under any circumstances. Candidates should be careful in filling
    out the Online Application Form before submission. If any lapse is detected at
    any stage of the recruitment process, the candidature will be rejected
 f) Candidates should not furnish any particulars that are false, tampered with, or
    fabricated. They shall not suppress or conceal any material information while
    filling out the Online Application Form. In case it is found at a later date that any
    false information has been provided, punitive action will be taken as per the law
 g) Candidates are expected to behave in an orderly and disciplined manner while
    appearing for the Tests / Examination / Certificates Verification. Any
    impersonation will be viewed adversely, and such Candidates shall be criminally
    prosecuted, besides being disqualified
 h) All the testimonials issued by the Competent Authorities shall compulsorily be
    produced as and when required. If the Candidate fails to produce the same, his
    candidature will be rejected/disqualified without any further correspondence
 i) The claim of the Candidates with regard to the Age, Date of Birth, Educational
    Qualifications, Community, etc., is accepted only provisionally based on the

Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 2 of 40
       information furnished by them in their Online Application Form and Certificates
       produced, subject to verification and satisfaction of the TSLPRB, at an
       appropriate time. Mere acceptance of the Application, admission to any Exam,
       or inclusion of a Candidate in a Qualified Candidates List does not confer any
       right for selection. The candidature is therefore provisional at all stages, and the
       TSLPRB reserves the right to reject his candidature at any stage of the selection
       without giving any notice.
  j) Due to various Age relaxations being there for different Posts, Age validation is
     not being done in the Online Application Form. It is the responsibility of the
     Candidates to satisfy themselves about their Age eligibility for the Post(s)
     applied for.
  k) If Candidates who are Under-Aged or Over-Aged apply for this Recruitment
     Notification, their candidature will be rejected at any time, and TSLPRB is not
     responsible for the same. Fee once paid will not be refunded.
Note: As candidature for the recruitment is processed through Computer/Electronic
devices, based on the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form, the
Candidates are advised to fill in all relevant particulars carefully.

4. FEE
 a) OC and BC Candidates with local status of Telangana State applying for the Posts
     of SCT PC (Mechanic) and SCT PC (Driver) have to pay the fee as designated in
     the Online Application towards Registration of the Application, Processing of
     Application, Conduct of Tests and Examinations (PMT / PET, Written
     Examination & Certificates Verification), Maintenance of Portal, etc. However,
     SC and ST Candidates who are Local to Telangana State have to pay the
     concessional fee as designated in the Online Application towards the same. All
     other Candidates will have to pay the fee as designated in the Online Application.

 b) For the Candidates who apply for more than one Notification issued by the
     TSLPRB within a period of 3 months from this date of Notification, the Physical
     Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the Notification(s)
     applied for by a Candidate, will be conducted only once and the same




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 3 of 40
    readings/scores will be valid for all the Posts for which he is applying for among
    the Notifications.

c) For Candidates applying for more than one Post among –
    1. SCT PC (Mechanic) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    2. SCT PC (Driver) [Notification No. 234/Rect./Rect-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    3. SCT PC Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 189/Rect./Rect.-2/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    4. SCT SI Civil or equivalent Posts [Notification No. 225/Rect./Rect.-1/2026, dated 29-07-2026]
    5. SCT ASI (FPB) [Notification No. 279/Rect./Rect.-3/2026, dated 29-07-2026]

    a rebate of Rs.50/- per each additional Post applied for (in excess of 1 Post) on
    account of the saving incurred due to the conduct of Common Physical
    Measurement Test and Physical Efficiency Test shall be given, in the total fee
    payable, in the case of Local Candidates of Telangana belonging to SC & ST
    categories and a rebate of Rs.100/- per each additional Post applied for (in excess
    of 1 Post) shall be given to all other Candidates.


d) The fee being collected from the Candidates will be towards
       (i)   Application Fee, Processing Charges, etc
       (ii) PMT / PET (Physical Efficiency) for all the Applicants (Events with RFID
            Bibs / Wrist Bands, Digital Height, and other equipment)
       (iii) Written Examination for all the Applicants Qualified in PMT / PET (One
             3-hour Exam)
       (iv) Conducting Biometrics at various stages, Examination Fee,
       (v) Portal Maintenance, Software Development, and Result Processing
           Charges, etc.



5. PAYMENT OF FEE
   I Step:     Candidate has to register himselfself on the TSLPRB Website –
             www.tgprb.in by using his Mobile Number as his User ID and then
             choose the Notifications and Posts that he would like to apply for. The
             fee payable will be determined based on the Posts he applies for.
             Candidates are advised to provide their mobile number as their Login ID,
             which will be in use throughout the recruitment process and will be in their

Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                             Page 4 of 40
             personal custody. It shall be their responsibility to ensure that this Mobile
             number is maintained continuously without any interruption throughout
             the process of recruitment, so that there will not be any loss of
             communication between the Board and the Candidates.

  II Step: This fee can be paid by using a Credit Card, a Debit Card, Net Banking, or
            a mode made available on the TSLPRB Website.

 III Step: After making the Payment, it shall be the responsibility of the Candidate to
            visit the website www.tgprb.in to submit the Online Application Form,
            which is in 2 parts, i.e., Part I and Part II. Part I Application has to be
            submitted initially along with a scanned copy of Passport Size Photo +
            specimen Signature combined as one file/image in jpg format. Even after
            making payment of the fee and furnishing the details in the Application
            Form, if the Candidate fails to press the submit button and the Application
            is not uploaded, such Applications shall be rejected without giving any
            notice, and the fee once paid will not be refunded in any case.

 IV Step:    As there is no Preliminary Written Test for the technical posts of SCT
             Police Constable (Mechanic) and SCT Police Constable (Driver),
             Candidates shall visit the website www.tgprb.in at the appropriate time
             prior to PMT / PET and upload the Part-II Application along with scanned
             copies of the required certificates / documents. The dates for submission
             of the Part-II Application will be intimated subsequent to the conclusion
             of Preliminary Written Test of PC Civil and / or equivalent Posts.

6. CANDIDATES SHOULD KEEP READY WITH THE FOLLOWING
   DOCUMENTS TO APPLY
Candidates are requested to keep the following documents ready before the scheduled
time for submitting the Online Application Form.

     i.   Latest SC Community Certificate with sub-classification of SC Group I, SC
          Group II, and SC Group III issued by the Competent Authority of the
          Government of Telangana (For SC Candidates only)
    ii.   Latest Economically Weaker Section (EWS) Category Certificate issued by
          the Competent Authorities of the Government of Telangana, issued on or after
          1st April 2026, wherever applicable


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 5 of 40
   iii.   Latest Non-Creamy Layer Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of
          the Government of Telangana, issued on or after 1st April 2026 (For BC
          Candidates only)
   iv. Local Candidature Certificates, i.e., Bonafide from 1st to 7th Class (or)
       Residence Certificate, wherever applicable
    v.    Special Category Certificates like Home Guard and Children of Police
          Personnel, etc


7. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-I ONLINE APPLICATION
a) Candidates are requested to check their eligibility carefully and fill in all the
   relevant columns in the Part I Application Form. Candidates should not register
   more than one Application Form for the present Recruitment Process, which
   intends to collect information for all the Posts notified through 4 (four) different
   Notifications with Notification Nos. 189 / Rect. / Rect.-2 / 2026, 225 / Rect. /
   Rect.-1 / 2026, 234 & 279 / Rect. / Rect.-3 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026

b) The following steps are to be followed by the Candidates who intend to submit
   the online Application through the payment gateway –
         i.   IRegistration using Mobile Phone as User ID
        ii.   Select the Post(s) for which he wants to apply as per the eligibility
      iii.    Note the Fee that has to be paid depending on the Posts chosen
       iv.    Payment of Fee using any mode made available
        v.    Continue on the TSLPRB Website with the User ID and fill Part I of the Application
       vi.    Scan and upload a copy of Passport Photograph and Specimen Signature as one file
      vii.    Submit the Application Form
    viii.     Print Application Form / Forms generated for the Notification(s) applied for

c) Candidates should keep ready a soft copy of his Passport Size Photo + specimen
   Signature combined as one file image in jpg format, as shown below, to be
   scanned and uploaded with the Online Application

                                     Recent
                                 Passport Size
                                 Photograph of
                                 the Candidate

                                   Signature

d) Application will be rejected if the Candidate uploads the Photo without a
   signature. The size of the above image/file should not exceed 100 KB (Minimum
   size is 30 KB). Please note that if the file is not in JPG format, the system will

Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                        Page 6 of 40
     reject it, and the Candidate may not be able to complete the process of filling in
     the remaining details of the Online Application Form.

e) After payment of the fee, Candidates can use the "Apply Online" in the main menu
   option on the website (www.tgprb.in) to fill his Part I Application Form.
f) Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand before
   clicking on "I AGREE".
g) Candidates should endorse the declaration at the end of the Online
   Application, signifying the fact that they have read and understood all the
   Rules and Regulations and that they agree to scrupulously abide by them and
   confirm with an OTP (One Time Password) sent to the Candidate’s
   Registered Mobile.
h) Once the Candidate submits the Application Form, no corrections can be made.
   Hence, Candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission.
i) After submission of the Online Application Form, the Candidate must download
   a copy of his submitted form in PDF for future use.


8. INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING PART-II ONLINE APPLICATION
a)    There is no Preliminary Written Test for the technical posts of SCT Police
      Constable (Mechanic) and SCT Police Constable (Driver). Candidates have
      to visit the website www.tgprb.in again to submit the Part-II Application.

b)    Giving false information, suppression, or concealment of facts will result in the
      disqualification of the Candidates and render them liable for Prosecution
c)    Once the Candidate submits the Application, no corrections can be made.
      Hence, Candidates are requested to carefully verify the details before submission
d)    Candidates are advised to carefully read all the instructions and understand
      before clicking on "I AGREE"
e)    After successful submission of the Online Application, the Candidate will
      receive an Acknowledgment through his email ID. (Check SPAM folder of your
      email account if you have not received it in INBOX). The Candidate must
      download a copy of his submitted form in PDF for future use.
f)    Candidates are advised to fill their Online Application Form themselves instead
      of handing it over to others to avoid any wrong entries. If their Online
      Application Form is being filled by some other person, the Candidate should

Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 7 of 40
       personally be available and ensure that the entries are made correctly and the
       Online Application is uploaded successfully.
 g)    Candidature is provisional at all stages. Mere issuance of Hall Ticket to the
       Candidates allowing them to attend the Examination(s) / Test(s) will not imply
       that Candidature has been finally cleared by the TSLPRB. TSLPRB will take
       up the Verification of Eligibility Conditions with reference to their Original
       documents of those Candidates who qualify in Final Written Examination.


9. UPLOADING / SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS
Copies of the following documents must be uploaded in support of the information
given in the Part II Application Form, where necessary, and the documents in their
original form should be produced at the time of Certificate verification. Failure to
upload the same will lead to rejection of the Online Application Form.

  i. SSC / Matriculation Certificate or its equivalent Certificate in support of Date of
     Birth
 ii. Education Qualification Certificates (See Para No.14(C) of this Notification)
 iii. Latest Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of the
      Government of Telangana for claiming Age relaxation/reservation (Candidates
      who belong to the SC Community should submit the Community Certificate with
      SC Sub-classification, i.e., SC Group - I, SC Group - II, and SC Group - III)
 iv. Latest Non-Creamy Layer Certificate issued on or after 1 st April 2026 by the
      Competent Authority of the Government of Telangana for BC Candidates, if
      they claim reservation in Selection
  v. Latest Certificate of Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category issued on
     or after 1st April 2026 by the Competent Authority of the Government of
     Telangana for claiming Age relaxation / EWS reservation as mentioned at Para
     No. 11(C) of this Notification
 vi. Agency Area (Local Scheduled Tribe) Certificate issued as per GO Ms No. 24,
     dated 12-06-2018 of the Government of Telangana for ST & Aboriginal Tribe
     Candidates of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial, Nagarkurnool,
     Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad, and Warangal
     districts, if they claim relaxation in height as per Para No. 15 (A) (ii) of this
     Notification
vii. Latest Service Certificate by those Employees / Candidates who are in the
     Telangana State Government Service for claiming Age relaxation (Annexure IV)
viii. Necessary Certificate by NCC Instructor for claiming Age relaxation
 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 8 of 40
 ix. Special Category Certificate(s) by those Candidates who claim Special
     reservation (See Para Nos. 19 and 20 of this Notification)
  x. PPO (Pension Payment Order) / Discharge Book, if already discharged from
     service of the Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army, for claiming Age
     relaxation/reservation under the Ex-Servicemen category
 xi. Serving Armed Forces of Army / Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army of the
     Indian Union retiring within one year from the last date on which Part-I
     Application could be submitted, should submit “No Objection Certificate”
     issued by the concerned Unit Commanding Officer duly indicating his Personal
     Number, Rank, Name, Unit and date of retirement or retirement order, for
     claiming Age relaxation/reservation under Ex-Servicemen category

xii. Study / Bonafide / Residence Certificates for claiming Local Candidature (See
     Para No. 17 of this Notification)
xiii. MSP Certificate(s) for claiming reservation under MSP (See Para No. 11 (D) of
      this Notification)

10. RULES GOVERNING THE POST(S)
Recruitment to the Posts of the Police Department (Post Code Nos. 35 and 36) is being
made under the Telangana Police (Stipendiary Cadet Trainee) Rules, 1999 issued in
GO Ms No. 315 Home (Police-C) Department, dated 13-10-1999 and the amendments
issued thereon from time to time by the Government, r/w GO Ms No. 68, Home (Legal)
Department, dated 28-07-2026.


11. SPECIAL REPRESENTATION (RESERVATION)

A) Reservation:
The rule of Special Representation (Reservation), i.e., BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D, BC-
E, SC, ST, Ex-Servicemen, Meritorious Sports Person, and Economically Weaker
Section category provided in Rule 22 of Telangana State & Subordinate Service Rules,
1996, shall be applicable to all the Posts.

B) Community:
  i. SC and ST Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State, as per the
       definition given in the Presidential Order, 2018, are required to produce the latest
       Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of the Government
 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 9 of 40
       of Telangana State for claiming Age relaxation/reservation. Candidates who
       belong to the SC Category should submit a Community Certificate as per Act
       No. 15 of 2025, dated 14-04-2025, issued by the Government of Telangana with
       regard to reservations to SCs by way of sub-classification in the State, i.e., SC
       Group - I, SC Group - II, and SC Group – III.

 ii.   BC Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State, as per the definition
       given in the Presidential Order 2018, are required to produce Community
       Certificate (BC-A, BC-B, BC-C, BC-D & BC-E) from the Competent Authority
       of the Telangana State Government.

 iii. Candidates belonging to Backward Classes shall submit the Community
       Certificate to claim Age relaxation and the latest Certificate of Non-Creamy
       Layer issued by the Competent Authorities of Telangana State on or after 01-04-
       2026 to claim Reservation. In case of failure to produce the Non-Creamy Layer
       Certificate on the day of Certificates Verification, such Candidates will be
       considered under “Open Competition”, if otherwise eligible, and the status
       cannot be changed later.

 iv. Relaxation in upper age limit and/or reservation to BC-E Group will be subject
       to the adjudication of the litigation pending before the Honourable Courts
       including final orders in Civil Appeal No(s). 2628-2637 of 2010 in SLP No.
       7388-97 of 2010 dated 25-03-2010 and orders of the Government.

 v. BC, SC, and ST Candidates who are not local to Telangana State, as per the
       Presidential order 2018, are not entitled to any kind of reservation.

C) Economically Weaker Section (EWS):

Candidates who are local Candidates to Telangana State as per the definition given in
the Presidential Order 2018 and belonging to Economically Weaker Section category
(as per GO Ms No. 65, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 19.03.2021 r/w GO Ms No.
244, GA (Ser. D) Department, dated 24-08-2021) shall submit the Income and Asset


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 10 of 40
Certificate issued by any of the following Authorities of Government of Telangana
State to claim Age relaxation and Reservation under this Category.

    i)   District Magistrate / Additional District Magistrate / Collector / Sub-
         divisional Magistrate / Mandal Revenue Officer
    ii) Revenue Officer not below the rank of Tahsildar and
    iii) Sub-Divisional Officer of the area where the Candidate and/or his family
         normally resides

D) Meritorious Sports Persons:
Persons who satisfy the definition given in sub-rule (20) of Rule 2 of Telangana State
and Subordinate Service Rules, 1996, and who possess the necessary certificate issued
by the Competent Authority clearly certifying that the qualifying participation was
prior to the date of this Notification, will come under this reservation, and it will be
applicable to the following categories only:

Category 1-  A sports person who won medals or represented India in an International
             Competition / Multinational Competition in any one of the recognized
             Games/Sports which are mentioned in Annexure I of GO Ms No. 74,
             YATC (Sports) Department, dated 9-8-2012, and as subsequently
             amended from time to time
Category 2 - A sports person who won medals or represented a State in India in a
             National Competition in any one of the recognized Games/Sports which
             are mentioned in Annexure I of GO Ms No. 74, YATC (Sports)
             Department, dated 9-8-2012, and as subsequently amended from time to
             time
Category 3 - A sports person who won medals or represented a University from the
             State of Telangana in the Inter-University Competition at the National
             level / Zonal level / Regional level in any one of the recognized
             Games/Sports which are mentioned in Annexure I of GO Ms No. 74,
             YATC (Sports) Department, dated 9-8-2012 and as subsequently
             amended from time to time

NOTE: -i) Candidates who come under category (1) above shall be considered initially
to fill the vacancies under MSP reservation. If sufficient Candidates of Category (1)


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 11 of 40
are not available, then the Candidates from Category (2) and thereafter from Category
(3) shall be considered for the relevant Posts.
ii) Where there is a larger number of Candidates possessing certificates of the same
category available, then the marks secured by them during the final selection shall be
taken to decide the inter-se-merit
iii) In the event of non- availability of eligible sports persons, the vacancies reserved
for them shall be allotted to the Open Competition in the same recruitment.



12. INSTRUCTIONS TO BE READ CAREFULLY
The requisite Educational qualification, Age, Physical standards, Procedure to be
followed for selection, etc., are given below. Candidates must read the instructions
given in this Notification carefully in their own interest.


13. SPECIAL CATEGORIES RESERVATIONS FOR TELANGANA
   LOCAL CANDIDATES ONLY
All Special Category reservations are applicable to the Local Candidates of Telangana
State only. Vacancies reserved for Special Categories, i.e., National Cadet Corps
(NCC), Children of Police Personnel (CPP), and Home Guards (HG), shall be adjusted
in a horizontal manner, i.e., the reservation of Special Category Candidates shall be
adjusted proportionately in the respective Communal Category to which the Candidate
belongs. The Percentage of vacancies reserved for the above Special Categories shall
be calculated for each category based on the vacancies notified.

14. ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS (CANDIDATES TO ENSURE THEIR
    ELIGIBILITY FOR THE EXAMINATION)
Candidates applying for the examination should ensure themselves that they fulfill all
the eligibility conditions for admission to the examination. Their admission at all the
stages of the Examination(s) / Test(s) will be purely provisional and shall be subject to
satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions.



 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 12 of 40
The mere issue of the Hall Ticket to the Candidate will not imply that his candidature
has been finally cleared by the Board.

TSLPRB will take up verification of eligibility conditions with reference to original
documents only after the Candidate has finally qualified or at an appropriate time.

 A. Eligibility by Gender: For the Posts Code Nos. 35 and 36 only men are eligible.

 B. Age Limit (General)

  i. For the Post Code Nos. 35 and 36:

    a) For Post Code No. 35 the Candidate must have attained the age of 18 years and
        must not have attained the age of 22 years as on 1st July, 2026. For Post Code
        No. 36 the Candidate must have attained the age of 21 years and must not have
        attained the age of 25 years as on 1st July, 2026. However, the Government of
        Telangana vide GO Ms No. 87, General Administration (Services-A)
        Department dated 18-05-2026 has raised the upper age limit prescribed for
        direct recruitment by 5 (five) years for uniformed services, including the Police
        Department. This relaxation is in addition to the upper age limit as mentioned
        above.

    b) For Home Guards, a person, who as on the date of this Notification has been on
       duty as Home Guard for a minimum duration of 360 days within a period of 2
       (two) years and who is still continuing his service as Home Guard is eligible to
       apply. For Post Code No. 35 such Candidate must have attained the age of 18
       years and must not have attained the age of 40 years as on 1st July, 2026 and for
       Post Code No. 36 such Candidate must have attained the age of 21 years and
       must not have attained the age of 40 years as on 1st July, 2026. However, the
       Government of Telangana vide GO Ms No. 87, General Administration
       (Services-A) Department dated 18-05-2026 has raised the upper age limit
       prescribed for direct recruitment by 5 (five) years for uniformed services,
       including the Police Department. This relaxation is in addition to the upper age
       limit as mentioned above.
Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 13 of 40
 ii) Relaxation in Upper Age Limit: The Upper age limit prescribed above is
      however, relaxable in the following cases:

         Sl.           Category of Candidates                     Relaxation of Age
         No.
               Telangana        State     Government
               Employees (Employees of TS
               TRANSCO, DISCOMs, TS GENCO,
                                                     Length of regular service
               State Road Transport Corporation and
          1                                          subject to a maximum period
               other Telangana State Corporations,
                                                     of 5 (five) Years
               Municipalities, Local Bodies, Public
               Sector Undertakings etc., are not
               entitled for age relaxation)
                                                    3 (three) Years in addition to
               Ex-Servicemen (Served in Army /
          2                                         the length of Service rendered
               Navy / Air Force / Territorial Army)
                                                    in the Armed Forces
               NCC Instructor (rendered a minimum 3 (three) Years in addition to
          3    service of 6 months as a whole time the length of Service rendered
               Cadet Corps Instructor in NCC)      in the NCC
         4 SCs, STs, BCs and EWS category           5 (five) Years
      Save as provided above, the age limits prescribed can in no case be relaxed.
      Note:

      1. Persons serving in the Armed Forces of the Indian Union, who on Retirement from
      Service, would come under the category of Ex-Servicemen, may be permitted to apply for
      re-employment one year before the completion of the specified terms of engagement and
      avail themselves of all the concessions available to Ex-Servicemen
      2. Name and date of birth accepted by the TSLPRB is that entered in the Secondary School
      Certificate or Matriculation or an equivalent examination certificate. No other document
      relating to Age like horoscopes, Affidavits, birth extracts from Municipal Corporation,
      Service Records and the like will be accepted


C. Educational Qualification:

   i) For Post Code No. 35: Must have passed SSC or any other examination
      recognized by the State Government as being equivalent to SSC and must
      possess an Industrial Training Institutional Certificate in Auto Electrician OR


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                        Page 14 of 40
      Mechanic Motor vehicle OR Mechanic Diesel OR Fitter, as on the date of
      Notification i.e., 29th July 2026.

      Provided that, Consolidated Marks Memo or any equivalent pass Certificate
      which proves the qualification shall be made available by the Candidate to prove
      his qualification on or before 29th July 2026 at the time of certificate verification.
      If he does not produce the required pass certificate on the designated day, then
      it shall be deemed that he does not possess required qualification and his
      candidature shall not be taken forward. Any certificates produced after the last
      date of Certificate Verification shall not be taken into consideration

      Note:- Candidates who possess higher qualification than the prescribed one will
      also be considered on par with the Candidates who possess the prescribed
      qualification

  ii) For Post Code No. 36:

      a) Academic Qualification: 1) Intermediate examination or any other
         examination recognized as its equivalent by the State Board of Intermediate
         Education as on the date of Notification i.e., 29th July, 2026;
                                     (OR)
          2) SSC or any other examination recognized by the State Government as
          being equivalent to SSC and must possess an Industrial Training Institutional
          Certificate in Auto Electrician OR Mechanic Motor vehicle OR Mechanic
          Diesel OR Fitter as on the date of Notification i.e., 29th July, 2026.

          Provided that, Intermediate pass Certificate cum Memorandum of Marks or
          any equivalent pass Certificate which proves the qualification shall be made
          available by the Candidate to prove his qualification on or before 29th July,
          2026, at the time of certificate verification. If he does not produce the
          required pass certificate on the designated day, then it shall be deemed that
          he does not possess required qualification and his candidature shall not be



Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 15 of 40
          taken forward. Any certificates produced after the last date of Certificate
          Verification shall not be taken into consideration.

          Note: - Candidates who possess a higher qualification than the prescribed
          one will also be considered on par with the Candidates who possess the
          prescribed qualification

      b) Technical Qualification:- Must have possessed a valid Heavy Passenger
          Motor Vehicle (HPMV) and Heavy Goods Vehicle or Transport Vehicle as
          on the date of Notification, i.e., 29th July 2026. The Candidate should have a
          valid Driving License as on the date of Notification, and such License shall
          have validity at the time of the Driving Test also.

          Note: Candidate should furnish the Driving License Information (Grant of
          issue of Driving License) issued by the Licensing Authority of the RTA
          concerned at the time of certificate verification.”

 D. Medical Standards:
      i) Eye Sight: Visual Standards required for the above selection shall be as
         follows –
                               Right Eye      Left Eye
             Distant Vision        6/6          6/6
             Near Vision           0/5          0/5
                                 (Snellen) (Snellen)
      ii) Each eye must have a full field of vision
      iii) Colour blindness, squint, or any morbid condition of the eye or lids of either
           eye shall be deemed to be a disqualification
      iv) Candidate should possess sound health and be free from any bodily defect or
          infirmity which will render him unfit for the Posts notified
       v) Candidates who have the following ailments or defects will not be
          considered for recruitment to any post specified in this rule
            i) Physically handicapped
            ii) Knock-knees, pigeon chest, flat foot, Varicose veins, Hammer toes,
                fractured limbs, decayed teeth, stammering, hard of hearing, and
                abnormal psychological behavior


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 16 of 40
      vi) Candidates provisionally selected shall be referred to the District
          Headquarter Hospital for Medical Examination / Fitness. For any expert
          opinion, Candidates shall be referred to Osmania / Gandhi Hospitals,
          Hyderabad, on the basis of the recommendations made by the District
          Headquarters Hospitals. Candidates who are declared unfit in eye related
          issues shall be referred to the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Hyderabad based
          on the recommendation made by the District Headquarters Hospital. The
          opinion given by the Sarojini Devi Hospital shall be final. The Candidates
          can be referred/examined only once on such recommendations. There shall
          not be any further re-examination once the Candidate is already examined as
          per the referral of the District Headquarters Hospital for expert opinion.
          Where there is no referral for expert opinion from the District Headquarters
          Hospital, such Candidates shall not be referred any further.

          Note:- In order to avert getting disappointed at a later stage, Candidates are
          advised to have themselves examined by a Civil Surgeon before applying for
          the examination to ensure that they meet the prescribed Physical and
          Medical Standards.




15. SELECTION PROCEDURE / SCHEME
The Selection Procedure / Scheme of the Examination will be as follows –


Intimation Letter: Candidates will be informed of the dates for downloading the

Intimation Letter through the website (www.tgprb.in) for appearing in the PMT / PET

with details of Venue, Date, and Time. Candidates should bring the Intimation Letter

while attending the PMT / PET.



Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 17 of 40
A) Sequence of Physical Efficiency Test and Physical Measurements:- As there is

no Preliminary Written Test for the technical posts of SCT Police Constable

(Mechanic) and SCT Police Constable (Driver), Candidates shall be required to

undergo the following tests and qualify as specified below:


i) 1600 meters Run event: -Men Candidates must qualify in the 1600 meters Run

within a maximum time of 7 Minutes 15 Seconds. For Ex-Servicemen, the maximum

time is 9 minutes and 30 Seconds.

While conducting the 1600-meter run events, where RFID-based readings are taken,

the competitors perform totally independently of each other. Consequently, starting

time, finishing time, and duration are automatically recorded individually for each

competitor. Nevertheless, wherever required, only the curved-start (not staggered-

start) method, wherein the competitors can change lanes immediately after the start,

will be adopted. All digitally recorded readings shall be rounded mathematically to 2

decimal places to determine qualification/disqualification and also gradation.


ii) Physical Measurements: Candidates who qualify in the above Run event should

meet the following requirements:

      Height: Must not be less than 162 Centimeters

      Provided that, the Candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes and Aboriginal

Tribes in the Agency areas of Adilabad, Komarambheem-Asifabad, Mancherial,

Nagarkurnool, Khammam, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mulugu, Mahabubabad, and

Warangal Districts should meet the following requirements:

       Height: Must not be less than 160 Centimeters


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 18 of 40
iii. Long Jump / Shot-put events: Candidates declared qualified in the Physical

Measurements as above shall be required to undergo the remaining PET events and

must qualify as detailed below:


             Sl.                                          Qualifying Distance
                               Item
             No.                                    General        Ex. Servicemen
              1    Long Jump                        4 Meters         3.50 Meters
              2    Shot-put (7.26 Kgs)              6 Meters          6 Meters
             Long jump and shot put are qualifying in nature.

Note: Physical Measurement Test / Physical Efficiency Test for all the Posts in the

Notification(s) issued by TSLPRB (within a period of 3 months) applied for by a

Candidate, will be conducted only once, and the same readings/scores will be valid for

all the Posts for which he is applying among the Notifications.


B) i. Trade Test for Post Code No. 35: Candidates who qualify in the above Physical

Efficiency Test will be required to appear and qualify in a Trade Test. The Chairman,

State Level Police Recruitment Board, will constitute a Committee for conducting this

Test with the Officers from Police Transport Organization, Road Transport

Corporation, and Road Transport Authority.


Candidates must qualify in the Trade Test carrying a maximum of 100 marks in 10

(ten) parameters mentioned below, out of which at least 50 marks must be obtained. If

a Candidate secures less than the prescribed minimum marks in three or more

parameters, he would be deemed to have failed in the Test even though he secures the

minimum marks, i.e., 50 marks in the aggregate.



Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                            Page 19 of 40
  Sl.                                                       Maximum Minimum
                                Subject
  No.                                                        Marks   Marks
   1     Setting of Tappet clearance, cylinder head nut
                                                                10            5
         tightening in the order of sequence
   2     Rear & front hub setting usage dial gauge              10            5
   3     Clutch master Cyl./Slave Cyl./Booster Assembly         10            5
   4     Clutch disc changing and adjustment                    10            5
   5     Gearbox selector mechanism dismantling and             10            5
         assembly Signals
   6     Feed pump assembly and injector testing                10            5
   7     Kingpin play adjustment (Leyland)                      10            5
   8     Attending Air lock (both rotary & Inline FIP           10            5
         systems)
   9     Setting of valve timing and Injector timing,           10            5
         Plunger lift setting in Rotary FIP
   10    4-wheel brake adjustment with manual and               10            5
         automatic slack adjuster
                                Total                          100            50


ii) Driving Test for Post Code No. 36: Candidates who qualify in the above Physical
Efficiency Test will be required to appear and qualify in a Driving Test. The Chairman,
State Level Police Recruitment Board, will constitute a Committee for conducting this
Test with the Officers from Police Transport Organization, Road Transport
Corporation, and Road Transport Authority.


Candidates must qualify in the Driving Test carrying a maximum of 100 marks in 8
(eight) parameters mentioned below, out of which at least 50 marks must be obtained.
If a Candidate secures less than the prescribed minimum marks in three or more
parameters, he would be deemed to have failed in the test even though he secures the
minimum marks, i.e., 50 marks in the aggregate.


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                  Page 20 of 40
   Sl.                                                      Maximum Minimum
                                Subject
   No.                                                       Marks   Marks
    1    Starting a Light Motor Vehicle, such as a Jeep /
         Car, from rest on the level up gradient and down      10            5
         gradient
    2    Gear changing up & down                               10            5
    3    Road sense, general driving, control of vehicle
         in all conditions of traffic & steering control,      20           10
         anticipation & judgment
    4    Use of brakes, stopping, parking, and reversing       10            5
         of vehicles
    5    Following Road Police Signals / Traffic               10            5
         Signals
    6    To carry out minor repairs and to attend to
         breakdown problems                                    15            8

    7    Knowledge of Motor Vehicle Mechanism                  15            7
    8    Knowledge of Preventive Maintenance                   10            5
                            Total                         100           50
Intimation Letter: Candidates who qualify in the Trade Test / Driving Test will be
issued Hall Tickets for appearing in the Written Examination with details of Venue,
Date, and Time. Candidates should bring the Hall Ticket when they come to attend the
Written Examination.

C) Written Examination:

i) For Post Code No. 35: Candidates who qualify in the Trade Test shall be required to
appear for a Written Examination (Technical paper of Objective Type (200 Questions)
for 200 Marks of 3 (three) hours duration). The syllabus for this paper is given in
Annexure I

ii) For Post Code No. 36: Candidates who qualify in the Driving Test shall be required
to appear for a Written Examination (Technical paper of Objective Type (200
Questions) for 200 Marks of 3 (three) hours duration). The syllabus for this paper is
given in Annexure II


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                 Page 21 of 40
Note:-
1) The minimum marks to be secured by the Candidates in order to qualify in the
written examination in the paper is 40% for OCs, including EWS, 35% for BCs, and
30% for SCs / STs / Ex-Servicemen. The same minimum qualifying marks shall apply
to the Candidates who belong to special categories referred to in para 20 in respect of
their social categories.
2) Questions in the Paper will be objective in nature and will be set in the English
language. Candidates have to answer the questions on an OMR answer sheet using a
Blue / black ball-point pen only.

3) While evaluating Objective type Papers, the marks for the deleted questions, if any,
will be awarded to each Candidate proportionately and the marks would be considered
up to 3 (three) decimal places, to determine the merit of the Candidate. Thus, with
reference to deleted questions, each Candidate will be compensated in proportion to
his percentage of marks obtained in the rest of the questions (which remain undeleted)

4) Appearance in all the Tests and Written Examinations, as per rules, is compulsory.
Absence in any of the above Tests / Examination shall automatically render a
Candidate disqualified.

5) Mere securing of minimum qualifying marks does not vest any right in a Candidate
to be considered for selection.


D) No Postponement / Reconsideration of Tests including PMT / PET during
recruitment process:- Candidates should be fit in all aspects at all stages of
recruitments including PMT / PET. No Postponement / reconsideration of stages under
any circumstances shall be allowed. A Candidate has to undergo the tests including
PMT / PET on the designated day in the sequential order as prescribed above.



 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                 Page 22 of 40
E)Final Selection:

i) For Post Code No. 35: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly
on their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of the Trade
Test and Written Examination. The Provisions of “The Telangana Public Employment
(Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment) Order, 2018” is
not applicable to this selection. To avail of any vertical or horizontal reservation, the
Candidate must be a local of Telangana State as defined in the Presidential Order and
having Community Certificate issued by the Competent Authority of Telangana State.

ii) For Post Code No. 36: The final selection of the Candidates shall be made strictly
on their relative merit, as obtained by them based on their aggregate score of the
Driving Test and Written Examination. The Provisions of “The Telangana Public
Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment)
Order, 2018” is not applicable to this selection. To avail of any vertical or horizontal
reservation, the Candidate must be a local of Telangana State as defined in the
Presidential Order and having Community Certificate issued by the Competent
Authority of Telangana State.

F) Merit among Candidates who secure same Marks: When 2 (two) or more
Candidates in a particular category obtain equal marks, preference will be given to the
Candidate who was born earlier.


16. CERTIFICATES VERIFICATION
Candidates who qualify in the Written Examination will be called for Certificates
Verification, and they have to produce Original Documents (along with two sets of
photocopies) and other particulars on the day of verification itself, for verification or as
and when required and called for. If Candidate(s) fail to produce the Certificates at the
time of verification or if the particulars furnished in the Online Application Form do not
tally with the Original Documents produced by the Candidate(s), the candidature will
be rejected/disqualified without any further correspondence.



 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 23 of 40
17. RESERVATION TO LOCAL CANDIDATES
Reservation to Local Candidates is applicable as per the provisions of “The Telangana
Public Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct
Recruitment) Order, 2018” issued in GO Ms No. 124 General Administrative (SPF-
MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018.               Candidates claiming Reservation as local
Candidates should enclose the required Study Certificate(s) for the duration of
education from I class to VII class issued by the Government School Authorities /
Government Recognized School authorities. Within the 7 (seven) years, in case the
Candidate did not study in any Government or Government-recognized school, then,
the Residence Certificate (for such period) issued by the Tahsildar of the concerned
Mandal should be enclosed for determining local Status.

Note:-
a) A single certificate, whether of study or residence, would suffice for enabling the
Candidate to apply as a “Local Candidate”
b) Residence certificate will not be accepted if a Candidate has studied in any
Educational Institution up to the 7th class or equivalent examination. Such Candidates
have to produce study certificates only, invariably. The Candidates, who acquired
degree from Open Universities without studying 7th class or equivalent in Educational
Institutions, have to submit Residence Certificate only. Educational Institution means
an institution recognized by the Government / University / Competent authority.


18. LOCAL RESERVATION

Local Reservation shall be followed in terms of Para (7) of Telangana Public
Employment (Organization of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct recruitment),
Order 2018 issued in GO Ms No. 124, GA (SPF.MC) Department, dated 30-08-2018
r/w GO Ms No. 128 GA (SPF-I) Department dated 30-06-2021 and subsequent Orders
issued by the Government from time to time.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 24 of 40
19. PERCENTAGE OF QUOTAS IN SPECIAL CATEGORIES
    i. For Post Code Nos. 35: 10% for Home Guards, 3% for Children of Police
       Personnel (CPP), 1% for NCC

   ii. For Post Code Nos. 36: 20% for Home Guards, 3% for Children of Police
       Personnel (CPP), 1% for NCC


20. SPECIAL CATEGORIES
Candidates who claim Reservation / Quota under following Special Categories should
satisfy the given conditions –

     (i) Children of Police Personnel (CPP) – Children of Police Constables and up
           to the rank of Inspectors of Police working in the Telangana State Police
           Department, as on the date of this notification, who are either in service in
           those ranks or retired or died are eligible under this quota. The benefit of the
           CPP quota is limited only to the first two children in a family.

    (ii)   National Cadet Corps (NCC) – Candidates who possess NCC A, NCC B
           and NCC C certificates issued by the competent authorities are equally
           eligible and shall be considered as per merit secured by them in the final
           selection. When two or more Candidates secure the same marks, preference
           shall be given to the Candidate who possesses a higher certificate.

    (iii) Home Guards (HG) – Persons who, as on the date of this Notification, shall
           be on duty as Home Guards for a minimum period of 360 days within a
           period of 2 (two) years and who are still continuing their service as Home
           Guards come under this Special Category

NOTE:

(i) The vacancies which remain unfilled in any one of the above Special Categories
shall be filled up by the general Candidates of respective open category and social
categories in the selection.

 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                      Page 25 of 40
(ii) The quota under Special Categories, for the Notifications issued by TSLPRB, is
applicable only to the Local Candidates of Telangana State as per the definition of
Local Candidate given in Presidential Order, 2018, and must possess a Community
Certificate issued by the Competent Authorities of Telangana State.

(iii) Children of Police Personnel who were compulsorily retired or removed or
dismissed from service as a measure of Punishment shall not be considered under the
quota of ‘Children of Police Personnel’ (CPP).


21. CERTIFICATES / ANNEXURES

a) Candidates who claim any Reservation / Quota under Home Guard, CPP, should
satisfy the above conditions and submit the relevant certificate(s) as per the
Annexure(s) appended to the Notification. Certificates pertaining to the above
Special Categories shall be valid and acceptable if they are obtained on or after
the date of this Notification from the Competent Authority. Certificates obtained
prior to the date of this Notification are not valid and will not be entertained.

b) Candidates who claim Reservation / Quota under NCC (A / B / C Certificate) should
submit the necessary certificate issued on or before the date of this Notification.


22. NECESSARY CERTIFICATE FOR EX-SERVICEMEN
Candidates who claim reservation as Ex-Servicemen should satisfy the conditions
mentioned in Sub-Clause (16) of Rule 2 of Telangana State and Subordinate Service
Rules, 1996, and shall have the necessary certificate from the Competent Authority
(PPO – Pension Payment Order, Discharge Book, and NOC, whichever is applicable).


23. SELECTION TO BE PROVISIONAL
Selection of the Candidates shall be provisional and be subject to verification of the
original certificates, antecedents, medical fitness, and also the outcome of disciplinary
proceedings, if any, pending against the serving employees.


 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 26 of 40
24. INCLUSION IN MERIT LIST DOES NOT CONFER ANY RIGHTS
Mere admission to any test or inclusion of a Candidate’s name in a Merit List shall not
confer on him any right for Selection / Appointment to such service, class or category.
The provisional selection of the Candidates to the Posts mentioned in this Notification,
are subject to the several other requirements described below.

  a) Verification of Antecedents and Medical Fitness: No person shall be eligible
      for appointment to any service by direct recruitment unless he satisfies the
      selection authority as well as the appointing authority that his character,
      antecedents and medical fitness are such as to qualify him for such service.

  b) Disqualification for Selection / Appointment: Candidates falling under the
      following categories shall be disqualified for Selection / Appointment, as per the
      rules.
      (i)   Suppression of Material facts or providing False / Erroneous Information
            (either in the Application Form or in the Attestation Form)
      (ii) If the Candidate himself or through his relatives or friends or any other has
           canvassed or endeavoured to enlist extraneous support whether from
           official or non-official sources for his candidature
      (iii) A person (a) who has entered into or contracted a marriage with a person
            having a spouse living, or (b) who, having a spouse living, has entered into
            or contracted a marriage with any other person. Provided that the State
            Government may, if satisfied that such marriage is permissible under the
            personal law applicable to such person, exempt any person from the
            operation of this rule
      (iv) A person who has been dismissed from the Services of a State or Central
           Government or from the service of any Central or State Government
           Undertaking or Local body or any other authority
      (v) A person who has been convicted for any offence except in cases where
          imposition of fines under MV Act and imposition of fines in summary trial
          cases.
      (vi) A person who is involved in criminal case(s) that are grave/serious nature
           (or) involving moral turpitude.


Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                   Page 27 of 40
25. SUPPRESSION / WITHHOLDING OF FACTS – NOT ADVISABLE
Suppression of Material facts or withholding any factual information in the Application
or Attestation Form (which would be supplied to the Candidates who are declared
provisionally selected) will disqualify the Candidate from being considered for
appointment. In the event of any information being found false or incorrect or
ineligibility being detected at any time even after Appointment, he will be discharged
from service forthwith by the Appointing Authority without giving any notice.


26. FALLOUT VACANCIES
There shall be no waiting list for any of the recruitment processes conducted by
TSLPRB and the list of Candidates provisionally selected as against the notified Posts
shall be final and there shall not be any sliding under any circumstances. The fallout
vacancies, if any, due to cancellation of provisional selection for any reasons, including
adverse Antecedents, Lack of Medical fitness, relinquishment by the Candidates, and
non-joining of the Induction Training as per the designated procedure, etc., of the
provisionally selected Candidates shall be deemed to lapse for the recruitment notified.



27. APPOINTMENT ON COMPLETION OF INDUCTION TRAINING
Candidates who are provisionally selected to the SCT Posts of the Police Department
will be appointed to the regular Posts by the concerned Appointing Authorities, only
on successful completion of Induction Training.


28. RESIGNATION AND RELIEF FROM EARLIER EMPLOYER
    NECESSARY PREREQUISITE TO JOIN TRAINING
Candidates who are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this
Notification and are employees of Tel angana State Government / any other State
Government / Central Government / any Public Sector Undertaking / Government
Enterprise can join training only after relief from the earlier employer / after resignation


 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                     Page 28 of 40
from the earlier service. Such relief/resignation should be obtained well before the
commencement of training and submitted to the concerned Appointing Authorities for
necessary action.

29. TIME LIMIT FOR SUBMISSION OF FORMS
Time limit for submission of Attestation Forms (or) other relevant documents (or)
attending Medical Examination (or) joining the Induction Training: i) Candidates who
are provisionally selected for any one of the Posts specified in this Notification will be
asked to submit an Attestation Form, produce other relevant documents, and attend
Medical Examination on a specified date. Candidates who become eligible to be sent
for training will be asked to join the training on a specified date. If any Candidate fails
to respond and submit the necessary form(s) or document or attend the Medical
Examination or join the training on a specified date, his provisional selection will be
cancelled without any further notice to the Candidate. The Candidates who are found
fit in all aspects and become eligible will be sent to the concerned Heads of
Departments for further action.

ii) If any Candidate finally selected as above fails to join the training on the specified
date or seeks postponement of training for any reason, further action, either to cancel
the selection or postpone the training, shall be taken by the Head of the Department.
For the Candidates whose training is postponed, further action to verify the
Antecedents Verification and conduct Medical Examination before sending the
Candidates for the next batch of training shall be taken by the Head of the Department.

iii) If any Candidate subsequent to his selection is unable to join the original Induction
Training Batch meant for the respective Post of the selection for reasons attributed to
the Candidate; and such situation continues till the conclusion of the usual date of
declaration of probation of the said batch, then such Candidate/s shall undergo the
Physical Efficiency Test prescribed for recruitment purposes as on the date of the
conduct of such test, only those Candidates who cleared the Physical Efficiency Test
shall be allowed to be considered for selection / consequent Induction Training.

 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 29 of 40
30. STIPEND AND ALLOWANCE
During the period of Institutional training (for Post Code Nos. 35 and 36) (regular as
well as extended), Candidates shall be eligible for a stipend as fixed by the Government
from time to time. On successful completion of training, they will be appointed in the
regular Post.


31. PENSION RULES
Employees who are appointed on or after 01-09-2004 are covered by the Contributory
Pension Scheme. Existing Pension Scheme as per Revised Pension Rules, 1980, as
applicable to the State of Telangana, will not be applicable to them.


32. DECISION OF TSLPRB TO BE FINAL
TSLPRB reserves all the rights to themselves with regard to taking of decisions
pertaining to acceptance or rejection of Application/s, procedure of Certificates
Verification, conduct of Examinations (especially as regards modifying and
rescheduling Examinations), Antecedent Verification, Medical Examination and
Selection as per Rules and decision/s of TSLPRB shall be final in all these aspects.
Candidates are advised to visit the website of TSLPRB regularly to keep themselves
updated until the completion of the recruitment process. Candidates are further advised
not to rely on rumours and false propaganda resorted to by persons with vested interests
through media / social media platforms. TSLPRB website information is final,
legitimate and definitive as far as correspondence/communication with the Candidates
is concerned. No individual correspondence by any other means will be entertained
under any circumstances.


                                                                    Sd/-
                                                          (V V SRINIVASA RAO, IPS)
                                                             CHAIRMAN TSLPRB
                                                                HYDERABAD




Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                    Page 30 of 40
                                      ANNEXURE – I
SYLLABUS FOR WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR POST CODE NO. 35
     TECHNICAL PAPER (OBJECTIVE TYPE OMR BASED)
                                (200 Questions for 200 Marks)


      Introduction to Automobiles, 4 and 2 Strokes Spark Ignition Engine,
Compression Ignition, Engines and working principles, Petrol and Diesel Engine
Components, Valve and operating Mechanism, Cooling System, Lubricating System,
Fuel System in Petrol Engine, Ignition System, Fuel Injection System in Diesel
Engines. Intake and Exhaust System, Battery, Automotive Electricity, Alternator,
Dynamo, Cut out, Fuses, Self Starter, Wiring and Electrical Accessories, Brakes,
Transmission Systems, Wheel Alignment, Steering, Suspension, Mechanic Tools,
Workshop Tools, Servicing of Vehicles, Check up of vehicles for Road Worthiness,
Fleet Maintenance of vehicles, Safety Precautions.

Note: In case of any dispute about any question or answer, the decision taken by the
Subject Expert Committee shall be final. The Board does not prescribe any particular
textbook or publication and is not bound by the material appearing in any book or
publication.


                                         ******




Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026               Page 31 of 40
                                     ANNEXURE – II
SYLLABUS FOR WRITTEN EXAMINATION FOR POST CODE NO. 36
     TECHNICAL PAPER (OBJECTIVE TYPE OMR BASED)
                                (200 Questions for 200 Marks)


Maintenance Responsibility, Drivers' daily routine duty, Daily maintenance, Weekly
Maintenance, Periodical Maintenance, Battery maintenance, its specific gravity, Tires
Maintenance and rotation, Fuel System, Ignition System, Lighting System, Brake
System, Clutch & Transmission System, Fuel Accountability, Dashboard Instruments,
Canopy and Seats Cleaning of the Windscreen and Wipers, Minor Repairs, viz. Fan
Belt Replacements, Attending Wheel Punctures, Air Lock Removal, MV Act and
Rules, Traffic Signals, First Aid Practice, Safety Precautions.

Note: In case of any dispute about any question or answer, the decision taken by the
Subject Expert Committee shall be final. The Board does not prescribe any particular
textbook or publication and is not bound by the material appearing in any book or
publication.


                                         ******




Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                Page 32 of 40
                                 ANNEXURE – III (A)
                       SCHOOL STUDY CERTIFICATE

Name of the Student:

Father’s Name:

                                                                       Duration of Study
   Class        Name and Place of School                   District
                                                                      with Month & Year

      I

     II

     III

    IV

     V

    VI

    VII
Note: Should be obtained from the Educational Institution(s)

Name of the School:

Village / Town:

Mandal:

District:

 Office Seal:

 Station:                                           Signature of the Head of
 Date:                                              the Educational Institute




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                        Page 33 of 40
                                      ANNEXURE – III (B)
                           CERTIFICATE OF RESIDENCE
(To be produced by such Candidates who have not studied in any Government Educational Institution / Government
Recognized Educational Institution during the whole or part* of the relevant 4/7 years period but claim to be local
Candidates by virtue of residence for which there is reservation for local Candidates)

It is hereby certified that
(a) Sri / Smt / Kum ____________________________son / daughter / wife of
______________________________has                         not     studied        in    any      Government
Educational Institution / Government Recognized Educational Institution during
the whole or part* of the 4/7 consecutive academic years ending with the academic
year in which he completed his 7th class

b) In the 4/7 years immediately preceding his study of 7 th Class, he resided in the
following place/places namely –

     Sl. No.            Village                  Mandal                 District               Period

        1

        2

        3

        4

        5

        6

        7


 Office Seal:

 Station:                                 Officer of Revenue Department not below the rank
 Date:                                    of MRO holding independent Charge of a Mandal

*Strike off whole/part as the case may be




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                        Page 34 of 40
                                    ANNEXURE – IV
                               SERVICE CERTIFICATE
              (For age relaxation as a Telangana State Government Employee)



*This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum ______________________________ S/o, W/o,
D/o _____________________________ was enrolled on_____________ in the
Telangana State Police Department in the rank of _________________
in___________ (unit) and is in service in the rank of _______________________ in
_________________ (unit).

         * This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum______________________________
S/o, W/o, D/o ______________________________ was enrolled on_____________
as _________________ in _________________ (Dept.) and is in service in the rank of
_________________ in ________________ (Dept.).

2.       He rendered his service as Government employee for ___ years ____ months

and ____ days from the date of enrolment till 01-07-2026.

3.       This certificate is issued to Sri / Smt. / Kum.___________________________
to enable him to apply for recruitment to the Posts of SCT Police Constable (Mechanic
/ Driver) vide Notification No. 234 / Rect. / Rect.-3 / 2026, dated 29-07-2026.


 Date:                                                     Signature and Designation of
                                                              Unit Officer with seal

*Strike off whichever is not applicable

Note: The period rendered as Stipendiary Cadet Trainee shall not be counted for the
purpose of service.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                         Page 35 of 40
                                      ANNEXURE – V
                       HOME-GUARD (HG) CERTIFICATE

         This is to certify that Sri / Smt. / Kum _____________________________ son
/ wife / daughter of Sri_____________________________ residing in House No.
__________________, ________________Street __________________ Village,
____________________ Mandal, ___________________ District / Town / City was
enrolled as a Home-Guard on ________________.



2.       He rendered his service as Home-Guard continuously for a period of two years
from _________ to ____________. During this period his service was utilised for
_______ days. He is also currently on the roll of the Home Guards Organisation.



 Date:                                                     Signature and Designation of
                                                              Unit Officer with seal




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                         Page 36 of 40
                                    ANNEXURE – VI
        CHILDREN OF POLICE PERSONNEL (CPP) CERTIFICATE
             (Benefit is to be limited only to the first two children in a family)



This is to certify that Sri / Smt. /Kum. ________________________________ residing
in House No. ________________, ___________________street _______________
Village, _______________________ Mandal, _________________ district / town /
city is the son / daughter of Sri / Smt ___________________________________ who
is / was in the service of the T.S. Police Department.

2.      The Candidate’s parent was enrolled on ____________ in the T.S. Police
Department in the rank of _____________________ in ____________________ unit
and is in service / retired / died in the rank of            _____________________ in
__________________________ unit as on __________.


3.      The Candidate’s parent does not fall under any of the following categories

        a)     Compulsorily retired
        b)     removed from service
        c)     dismissed from service



                                                           Signature and Designation of
Date:                                                         Unit Officer with Seal


Note: The benefit of CPP quota is limited only to the first Two Children in a family.
The Unit Officer has to verify this before issuing the CPP Certificate by obtaining an
undertaking from the employee / Head of the family in case of a deceased employee.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                       Page 37 of 40
                                       ANNEXURE – VII
                                                 FORM - 1
(For representing India in an International Competition / Multinational Competition
                      in one of the recognized Games/ Sports)

NATIONAL FEDERATION/NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ______________

         Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum ________________________________________
Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri _______________________________________ resident
of___________________________________________________________                                     (complete
address)____________________________________ represented the Country in the
Game             /         Event            of          ___________________________                         in
_________________________________                      Competition         /   Tournament          held     at
________________________________ from ___________ to _____________


         The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
Tournament was ___________________________________


         The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
National Federation / National Association of ______________________________

Place:                             Signature: ____________________________________
Date:                              Name: ________________________________________
                                   Designation: ___________________________________
                                   Name of the Federation / National Association ________
                                    _____________________________________________
                                   Address ______________________________________
                                    _____________________________________________
                                   Seal _________________________________________

Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary, National Federation /
National Association. Additionally, the Candidate has to provide evidence of his participation / success in the
given Sport at the State / University / District levels, prior to his participation at the multinational /
International level.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                     Page 38 of 40
                                      ANNEXURE – VIII
                                               FORM – 2
    (For representing a State in India in a National Competition in one of the recognised
                                        Games/Sports)
STATE ASSOCIATION OF _____________________________________________

         Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum _____________________________________
Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri ____________________________________ resident of
____________________________________________________________________
(complete address) ________________________________________ represented the
State of ______________________________________________in the Game/Event
of _______________________ in the National Competition / Tournament held at
__________________ from _____________ to _____________

         The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition/
Tournament was ___________________________________

         The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
the State Association of ____________________________________

Place:                                        Signature: _____________________________

Date:                                         Name: _________________________________

                                              Designation ____________________________

                                              Name of the State Association_______________

                                             Address _________________________________
                                               ______________________________________

                                              Seal __________________________________

Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Secretary of the State Association.
Additionally, Candidate has to provide evidence of his participation / success in the given Sport at University
/ District levels / School level, prior to his participation at National level.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                     Page 39 of 40
                                            ANNEXURE – IX
                                              FORM – 3
(For representing a University in the Inter-University Competition at National level/ Zonal
               level / Regional level in one of the recognised Games/Sports)

UNIVERSITY OF_____________________________________________

         Certified that Sri / Smt / Kum __________________________________
Son / Wife / Daughter of Sri ________________________________ resident of
____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________                                       (complete             address)
represented the University of_________________________in the Game / Event of
__________________________in Inter-University Competition / Tournament held at
___________________ from ______________ to _______________.

         The position obtained by the Individual / Team in the above said Competition /
Tournament was ___________________________________

         The Certificate is being given on the basis of records available in the Office of
the     Dean      of     Sports      or     Officer      in    overall      Sports       in    the     University
of_____________________

Place:                                            Signature___________________________
Date:                                             Name______________________________
                                                  Designation_________________________
                                                  Name of the University_______________
                                                  Address____________________________
                                                  __________________________________
                                                  Seal ______________________________

Note: This Certificate will be valid only when signed personally by the Dean/Director or other Officer in
overall charge of sports in the concerned University. Additionally, Candidate has to provide evidence of his
participation / success in the given Sport at District levels / School level, prior to his participation at University
level.




 Rc No. 234 / Rect. / Rect-3 / 2026 dated 29th July 2026                                           Page 40 of 40
