                               Common Recruitment Examination and
          paper-based Basic Law and National Security Law Test (Degree / Professional Grades)
  of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China
                                                      Notes for Applicants
 Please read these notes carefully before completing the online application form for the Common Recruitment
 Examination and the paper-based Basic Law and National Security Law Test (Degree / Professional Grades)
 (CRE and BLNST). Please keep these notes for reference until the examination results are available.
Date of Examination:            5 December 2026
Application Deadline:           2 October 2026 11:59 p.m. (Hong Kong time)
      (a)     The current call for applications is only for persons who choose to take the CRE and BLNST in one of the following cities:
              Beijing, Shanghai, London, New York, Toronto, Vancouver and Sydney.
              [Note: For persons who have applied for sitting the examination in Hong Kong in October 2026 and subsequently obtain the
              highest results of the CRE paper(s), they will not be arranged to take the same paper(s) again in the examination outside
              Hong Kong in December 2026.]
      (b)     Please ensure that all parts in the application form are completed (except those items marked as “Optional”) and the
              information is accurate. Your application will not be considered if you fail to provide all information as requested.
      (c)     Applicants will be notified of the examination details by e-mail before 23 November 2026. Any requests for change of
              examination date / time / venue will not be considered. Persons who wish to take the coming CRE and BLNST should visit
              the Civil Service Bureau (CSB) webpage at www.csb.gov.hk/eng/cre.html regularly to check for updates on the
              examination and refer to the relevant details.
      (d)     Candidates will be notified of their examination results by email in the form of electronic result certificates within one
              month after the examination.
      (e)     For enquiries, please contact the Civil Service Examinations Unit (CSEU) by phone at (852) 2537 6429, or by e-mail to
              csbcseu@csb.gov.hk, or by post to Room 2511, 25th Floor, Immigration Tower, 7 Gloucester Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong.

Eligibility
(1)   Applicants for the coming CRE and BLNST should be –
      (a) holders of Degree (not including Associate Degree); or
      (b) individuals who will have attained a Degree (not including Associate Degree) in the academic year of 2026-27 or 2027-28;
            or
      (c) holders of a qualification meeting the entry requirement on professional qualifications for civil service degree or professional
            posts. (Only applicable to those who are not in the above two categories.)
            [Note: For this category of applicants, before submitting an application for the CRE and BLNST, please refer to the
            “Frequently Asked Questions” available at www.csb.gov.hk/eng/cre.html for information about the eligibility of applicants.
            You should also check with the departments / grades concerned to confirm whether the qualification that you are holding is
            accepted for appointment to the relevant post(s).]
Application Procedure
(2)   Applicants should submit an application for the CRE and BLNST on or before the application deadline through the online
      application system on the CSB webpage at www.csb.gov.hk/eng/cre.html.
(3)   Each applicant should submit only one application. Duplicate applications will not be processed. Submissions by post, fax or
      e-mail will not be accepted. Applications with incomplete or unclear information will not be processed.
(4)   Late or incomplete applications will not be accepted. Towards the deadline for application, the online system would likely be
      heavily loaded with large volume of applications, and it may render applicants unable to complete their online applications in time.
      Applicants are therefore strongly advised to submit their application as early as possible.
(5)   On receipt of an online application, a confirmation e-mail with a serial number will be sent to the applicant’s e-mail address
      immediately. Applicants should immediately contact the CSEU by phone at (852) 2537 6429 during office hours or by e-mail to
      csbcseu@csb.gov.hk if they do not receive the confirmation e-mail after submitting the application. Applicants are required to
      keep the serial number until the examination is over.
(6)   As the CSEU will communicate and send notifications to applicants via the e-mail address provided in the application form,
      applicants should provide an accurate e-mail address in their application. To avoid missing any notification, applicants should
      ensure that their e-mail accounts can receive e-mails from CSEU, and check each incoming mailbox (including the folders for
      spam, bulk and junk mails) regularly.
(7)   An e-mail will be sent to applicants notifying them of the relevant examination details. Applicants who do not receive the e-mail
      by 23 November 2026 should immediately contact the CSEU by phone or by e-mail.
CRE and Civil Service Recruitment
(8)  The CRE consists of three 45-minute papers, namely Use of English (UE), Use of Chinese (UC) and Aptitude Test (AT), in
     multiple-choice format. The UE and UC papers assess proficiency in English and Chinese languages respectively whereas the AT
     paper assesses reasoning abilities. Candidates’ results in the UE and UC papers are classified as Level 2, Level 1 or Fail, with
     Level 2 being the highest. Results in the AT paper are classified as Pass or Fail. Level 2 and Level 1 results of the two language
     papers and Pass result of the AT paper are of permanent validity.
(9) In general, applicants for civil service posts at degree or professional level are required to obtain either Level 2 or Level 1 in the
     UE and UC papers of the CRE for meeting the language proficiency requirements as stipulated by individual recruiting
     departments / grades in the relevant recruitment advertisements. Applicants with Level 2 in the UE and UC papers are considered
     as meeting the general language proficiency requirements of all degree or professional grades. The list of civil service grades
     which require Level 2 or Level 1 in the two language papers can be found on the CSB webpage.
(10) Applicants for some of the civil service posts at degree or professional level are also required to obtain a Pass in the AT paper in
     addition to the requisite results in the UE and UC papers. The list of civil service grades which require a Pass in the AT paper for
     appointment can be found on the CSB webpage.
(11) Some civil service grades (e.g. disciplined services grades) offer different entry pay points to recruits according to their academic
     qualifications. Degree holders without the requisite CRE results may still apply for these posts but will not be eligible for the
     degree pay point. The list of grades offering different entry pay points according to academic qualifications can be found on the
     CSB webpage.
(12) Persons who wish to apply for civil service posts at degree or professional level should first obtain the requisite CRE results unless
     otherwise specified in the relevant recruitment advertisements. Applicants may choose to attempt all, any one, or any
     combination of the CRE papers. Applicants are advised to ascertain the requirements of the civil service post(s) in which they are
     interested and other examination results accepted as equivalent to CRE results before deciding on which paper(s) they should
     attempt in the coming examination (see notes (17) to (22) below). Any change to the choice of papers is not allowed after the
     application deadline.
(13) The CRE is held independently of the recruitment process for any civil service post. Persons who wish to apply for civil service
     posts should apply to the recruiting departments / grades direct. The acquisition of the requisite CRE results does not imply that a
     candidate has fully met the entry requirements of any civil service post at degree or professional level. Vetting of academic and /
     or professional qualifications will be carried out by the recruiting departments / grades which may also conduct separate
     examinations / interviews in addition to the CRE.
BLNST and Civil Service Recruitment
( 1 4 ) All applicants for civil service jobs will be assessed on their knowledge on the Basic Law and the National Security Law.
        Attaining a pass result in the BLNST is an entry requirement for all civil service jobs. All candidates for civil service jobs
        must pass the BLNST in order to be considered for appointment, regardless of whether the candidates have previously taken the
        Basic Law Test (BLT) and the result.
(15) The BLNST (Degree/Professional Grades) is a 30-minute bilingual test (in both English and Chinese) comprising 20
        multiple-choice questions. Candidates answering at least 10 out of 20 questions correct will be deemed to have a pass result in
        BLNST acceptable for the purpose of applying for all civil service jobs and they will not be arranged to take any BLNST again. A
        pass result in BLNST is of permanent validity
(16) More details about the BLNST can be found on the CSB webpage.
Choice of Examination Papers
(17) Level 5 or above in English Language of the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination (HKDSEE) is
     accepted as equivalent to Level 2 in the UE paper of the CRE. Level 5 or above in Chinese Language of the HKDSEE is
     accepted as equivalent to Level 2 in the UC paper of the CRE. Applicants with the above result(s) will not be arranged to take
     the UE and / or UC paper(s).
(18) Level 4 in English Language of the HKDSEE is accepted as equivalent to Level 1 in the UE paper of the CRE. Level 4 in
     Chinese Language of the HKDSEE is accepted as equivalent to Level 1 in the UC paper of the CRE. Applicants with the above
     result(s) may wish to take this into account in deciding whether they need to take the UE and / or UC paper(s) having regard to the
     requirements of the civil service post(s) in which they are interested.
(19) Grade C or above in Use of English of the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) or in English Language of the
     General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) (GCE A Level) is accepted as equivalent to Level 2 in the UE paper of the
     CRE. Grade C or above in Chinese Language and Culture or Chinese Language and Literature of the HKALE is accepted
     as equivalent to Level 2 in the UC paper of the CRE. Applicants with the above result(s) will not be arranged to take the UE and
     / or UC paper(s).
(20) Grade D in Use of English of the HKALE or in English Language of the GCE A Level is accepted as equivalent to Level 1 in
     the UE paper of the CRE. Grade D in Chinese Language and Culture or Chinese Language and Literature of the HKALE is
     accepted as equivalent to Level 1 in the UC paper of the CRE. Applicants with the above result(s) may wish to take this into
     account in deciding whether they need to take the UE and / or UC paper(s) having regard to the requirements of the civil service
     post(s) in which they are interested.
(21) An overall band of 6.5 or above with no subtest score below band 6 obtained in the same sitting in the Academic Module of the
     International English Language Testing System (IELTS) within the 2-year validity period of the test is accepted as equivalent to
     Level 2 in the UE paper of the CRE. Applicants with the above results may wish to take this into account in deciding whether
     they need to take the UE paper.
(22) Applicants may choose to take any of the CRE papers and / or the BLNST paper in the coming examination.
Data Privacy
(23) The information provided by applicants and their examination results may be provided to government departments and other
     organisations or agencies authorised to process such data for purposes relating to recruitment by and employment with the
     Government. Requests for correction of or access to personal data after the submission of an application form should be
     addressed in writing to Senior Executive Officer (Examinations)2 of the CSEU at Room 2511, 25th Floor, Immigration Tower, 7
     Gloucester Road, Wan Chai, Hong Kong. Personal data provided in the application form will normally be destroyed one month
     after the issue of examination results. After this date, personal data related to examination results of candidates including name,
     e-mail address, identity document number and examination result(s) of paper(s) taken (Level 2, Level 1, Pass or Fail) will
     normally be retained permanently.

 * Applications with incomplete or unclear information, late applications, duplicate applications, or applications submitted by
   post, fax or e-mail will not be processed.
 * The Application Form for the CRE and BLNST is NOT a job application form for employment with the Government.
   Persons who wish to apply for civil service posts should follow the procedures stipulated in the relevant recruitment
   advertisements.
